---
layout: post
title: "FireDrums 2014 and San Francisco"
tags: Poi, Festival, graffiti, San-Francisco, USA
travel_dates: 2014-05-27 - 2014-06-04
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419365423/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Burn night one by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7541/15419365423_841212fcd8_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="FireDrums 2014 Fire Circle"></a>

Way back in January at [Poi Love Camp](/2014/07/01/poi-love-camp/) I'd asked
Jonathan Alvarez what he thought the best flow festival was during them summer
in the USA, and he told me he thought FireDrums was number one, so I put it in
my calendar and mostly forgot about it. Much later I realised it was only a few
weeks away, and decided to impulse buy a ticket, sort out some flights and get
my self along to see it for myself.

<!-- more -->

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853206187" title="Best row on the plane! by Lucas Parry, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7472/15853206187_c65e1f1d44_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Best row on the plane!"></a>

I flew from San Pedro Sula (aka. Murderville) to San Francisco, with a brief
stopover in Houston, but a delayed flight meant that I was arriving at 11pm
instead of 9pm like I had intended, so it was very late by the time I left the
airport, which meant I got the royal introduction from San Francisco wackos,
from the crazy guy on BART who was laughing and ranting, telling everyone that
he wasn't dead, and that he'd killed Elvis, to the super friendly homeless guy
on the bus who was very insistent that I had to visit Pier 39 while I'm in town
to see the real San Francisco.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16013228826/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Camille, my couchsufing host by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8576/16013228826_6e22fd4350_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Camille, my couchsufing host"></a>

I was staying with some people I'd gotten in touch with through couchsurfing, a
very hospitable girl named Camille and her lovely house mate Rose. They were
awesome! They even had a little dinner party one night; I couldn't have asked for better hosts.

I had a day in San Francisco to sort out things I needed for FireDrums (sleeping
bag, camp mat, food. I was lucky enough to get offered a lift and a spot in
someone's tent which saved me a whole lot of hassle), but I started off the day
by exploring some of the mission street, one of the oldest and longest streets
in the city.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853224077/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Awesome alley of murals by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8593/15853224077_0a37dc5248_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Awesome alley of murals"></a>

I found some cool little alleyways full of murals, Clarion Alley in particular.

During the day I ended up walking nearly the entire length of Mission street
right down to the ferry building (I switched over to Market at some point when
Mission got too seedy for me, I think it was about the time I saw a deaf woman
gesturing blowjobs at passing cars, then at me), with a quick detour to the
camping shop to pick up the stuff I needed and a quick stop in at Chez Maman, a
restaurant that pretty much everyone I know from Melbourne who's been to San
Francisco seems to rave about.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853233307/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Super fancy burger at Chez Maman by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7478/15853233307_04a5160076_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Super fancy burger at Chez Maman"></a>

Chez Maman was a tiny little place, mostly just counter seating along the grill.
I got a basic burger with goats cheese, and it was pretty good, but that and a
beer came out to $25 with taxes and the tip so it was more than I would have
liked to spend just on lunch. Maybe I'd feel better about it if I still had an
income.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851877370/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Holy fuck these trees are big by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7506/15851877370_574018e185_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Holy fuck these trees are big"></a>

The next morning my ride to FireDrums, a friendly bloke named Peter, showed up
in his truck and we headed a few hours north to Navarro; the beautiful FireDrums
site fully of enormous redwood trees. Peter was kind enough to offer me not
just a ride, but also some space to sleep in his tent which made flying in for
the event a whole lot easier than it could have been. Thanks again mate!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16039011385/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Completed teserect by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7557/16039011385_4feca349af_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Completed teserect"></a>

On arrival we quickly put up Peter's tent, then went off to work our first
volunteer shifts. As part of keeping costs down, everyone attending FireDrums is
expected to help out by doing a few volunteer shifts. I volunteered for one of
the setup shifts, which resulted in me working on putting together the stand for
the Teserect, a magical mirror filled box that belongs to Prometheatrics.
Prometheatrics happens to be the burning man camp I was lined up to camp with,
so as a bonus I got to meet a few people from the camp, TeaFaerie, Sean and
Spin, all of whom are lovely.

Wandering around later that afternoon I ran into Tim and Lou, two more spinners
I'd briefly met back home in Oz, who were touring around the USA hitting all the
bit flow festivals. Nice to see some familiar faces and hear some accents from
home.

I also bumped into Jonathan who gave me a super excited welcome as though I was
flow-famous or something. That guy is so damn friendly!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853254257/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Opening ceremony by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7519/15853254257_39bfd6bd6a_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Opening ceremony"></a>

The event opened with an opening ceremony around the fire circle, led by Sky (?)
and Ben Drexler, yet another person who made a huge number of youtube tutorials
I've watched.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16013259326/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Timmy teaching tapedeck torrids by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7493/16013259326_296308a805_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Timmy teaching tapedeck torrids"></a>

Each day of FireDrums was cram packed with workshops for all different kinds of
things, from poi to staffs, hoop to juggling, footwork to flexibility. I took
some great classes about all different kinds of poi throws and tosses which I
feel add a bit of a club juggling flair to spinning poi; classes on different
advanced stalls, Tim's classes on iso-pendulums and tape-desk toroids, and a
bunch more. With some many workshops each day, you really had to accept you
couldn't go to all of the ones you wanted to, and if you went to one in every
timeslot you were thoroughly burnt out with information overload for the day.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851750940/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Burn night one by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8602/15851750940_7343ce9717_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Burn night one"></a>

I'd been wanting to purchase my first set of fire poi for a while, and so had
been looking around at all the market stalls and had narrowed it down to just a
few different types of wicks. After the fire circle started up the first night,
I managed to find some people with the kind I was looking at who were kind
enough to let me have a go with them lit up, so I could get a better idea of how
they differed.

I ended up splashing out for some twista style wicks, glow-in-the-dark soft pom
grips, and fancy new Technora fire resistant rope leashes instead of the
traditional chains, so that my fire poi and my LED poi feel a bit more similar.
I got in a good number of burns each night and have been extremely happy with
the new poi.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16037105091/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Performance night by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8639/16037105091_b2bfc14f37_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Performance night"></a>

One evening their was a showcase of performers getting up on the stage of the
amphitheatre to show off their skills. There was some fantastic partner acts and
one of the most amazing hoopers I've ever seen. An epic display of talent on show.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16013285546/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Burn night two by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8671/16013285546_47985ac650_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Burn night two"></a>

My other volunteer shift was a fire safety shift, relieving a pretty girl named
Leora of her post. Being a fire safety pretty much involves sitting at the edge
of the fire circle with a blanket of fireproof material called Duvetyne,
watching people spin, keeping an out out for any clothing that catches alight
and letting the wearer know (and help them put it out if needed. My shift was
pretty trouble free, mostly just putting out peoples props who were done
spinning, although I did need to put the back of one dudes pants out that had
caught on fire.

I should stop and say the fire circle was pretty crazy. Never before have I seen
so many people spinning fire in one place, and so much talent. Even with all the
safeties around, it almost felt like there was too much going on for everyone to
have someone keeping an eye on them.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16037109191/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Burn night two by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7540/16037109191_9b823e1b2b_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Burn night two"></a>

I find the contrast between Australian and USA approaches to safety really
interesting. In the USA white gas is the fuel of choice, while in Australia it's
frowned upon because it's quite a bit more dangerous and people prefer fuels
with kerosene-like properties. Kerosene burns cooler, and it needs a wick to
burn, which means that fuel spraying off or being spilt are less dangerous (but
still not good). You can drop a lit match into a bucket of kerosene-like fuel
and it will go out. Do the same with a bucket of white gas and you have a huge
problem. Kerosene-like fuels do have the downsides that they don't burn as
cleanly or as brightly.

Now the interesting part is (perhaps because of these choices in fuel), I've
gotten the impression that people from the USA are far more conscientious about
having a dedicated fire safety person around when people spin, with proper
equipment around to put out fires. Maybe it's just me being unobservant, but I
feel like I've spun fire, or seen people spinning fire back home in oz a load of
times but I'd never been or seen a fire safety for anyone. I don't recall seeing
Duvetyne in real life before going to the USA; at most I've heard of people
using wet towels. It's funny how each country seems to have focused on
optimizing one aspect of safety, but ignores another aspect.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851788020/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Burn night two by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8631/15851788020_837b4b3c83_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Burn night two"></a>

Anyway, after sitting in the cold, being a fire safety for 2 hours, I went out
and had another few burns with my new poi to warm up again. On my last burn of
the night, I was offered some titanium powder, a substance you can apply to your
props that makes them throw off little firefly like sparkles, especially when
they stop abruptly, like in a spiral wrap. Wanting to see sparkles, I did a
spiral wrap (perhaps too early in the burn with too much excess white gas, or
perhaps the heat from the burning titanium?), and
when the spiral unwrapped the top of my hand was on fire. I patted it out and
kept spinning until the fuel on the poi burned out, after which I noticed it was
actually quite a painful burn so I headed to first aid who gave me some
antibiotic cream and told me to expect blisters.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419500053/in/set-72157647464916314" title="My first spin related burn by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8616/15419500053_e7dd8ed50a_c.jpg" width="800" height="800" alt="My first spin related burn"></a>

The pain was pretty nasty, so I ended up taking some painkillers and some
sleeping tablets and went to bed just so I didn't have to put up with it any
longer. Anyway, it's a lesson I wont soon forget in being careless with new
fuels that I'm not familiar with; both the titanium powder and the white gas.

The next day we got up and packed down the tent, and Peter mentioned he'd
organized to give some chick a lift back with us to San Francisco, who turned
out to be Leora from fire safety the night before.

Peter was very keen to go to some hot springs on the way back called Harbin
that were "clothing optional." I think I saw one maybe person wearing pants.
You'd be the strange one if you weren't naked.

Leora seemed equally hesitant as me to strip off, but I figured YOLO and we all
stripped off and went and bathed in the springs. For the most part, me and Leora
stuck together, so it was really good to have a
“not-completely-comfortable-with-this” buddy there with me to share the
experience with. Peter on the other hand seemed completely in his element. To be
honest it was actually a lot less awkward/uncomfortable than I had imagined it
might be. When everyone is naked it doesn't seem like such a big deal at all.

There was a super hot “meditation” pool, a hot “quiet” pool” a warm pool, an icy
cold pool and a big swimming pool. We went into the hot pool for a little bit,
then the super hot pool for all of about 30 seconds before it was too hot, then
the icy pool, then the warm pool again, then the swimming pool... and then back and
forth a bit more. It was a rather enjoyable way to relax for a few hours.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16038304292/in/set-72157647464916314" title="Driving over the Golden Gate by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8583/16038304292_a0f8c6c97c_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="The Golden Gate on the way there, didn't think to take a fog photo"></a>

Coming back into San Francisco the bay was crazy foggy; a stark contrast from
when we left in the other direction and it was clear blue skies. You couldn't
even see the top of the Golden Gate bridge as we drove over it.

We dropped Leora off at the airport then headed back to Peter's place where he'd
been kind enough to offer me his couch for a few nights.

I spent the few days before my flight exploring various places around San
Francisco, some touristy, some of very little interest to most people.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851882220/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Powell St, Muni sickout meant no cable cars by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7552/15851882220_73ba285557_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Powell St, Muni sickout meant no cable cars"></a>

I walked up telegraph hill because the trams were still on strike.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853402697/in/set-72157647472845853" title="WWDC. This is how far I got before security asked me for my pass by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8626/15853402697_2c3fe9aa4c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="WWDC. This is how far I got before security asked me for my pass"></a>

I went and had a look at Mission Dolores park. I went over to the Moscone
centre, and asked some WWDC attendees about the new announcements this year.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419515283/in/set-72157647472845853" title="I make have fan-stalked Github HQ by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8678/15419515283_d266248662_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Github HQ"></a>

I fan-stalked past Github HQ. I made a visit to one of the regular spin jams
that take place at the Vulcan, home to a bunch of San Francisco's amazing poi
spinners.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419533953/in/set-72157647472845853" title="I may have spun poi in the Exploratorium to try and make pretty patterns by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7502/15419533953_1780b01109_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="I may have spun poi in the Exploratorium to try and make pretty patterns"></a>

I went and checked out the Exploratorium, a huge hands on science museum that I
would have loved as a kid (and was still awesome as an adult).

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16038488492/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Sea lions at pier 39 by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7571/16038488492_d00ec2c49b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Sea lions at pier 39"></a>

I went over to pier 39 to see the sea lions

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851916080/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Alcatraz by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7464/15851916080_8a43ccd28b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Alcatraz"></a>

and got my first glimpse of Alcatraz.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853157229/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Lombard Street by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7562/15853157229_270fb0b8e6_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Lombard Street"></a>

I even walked up the hill to Lombard st, the crookedest street in the world. I
went and had a quick walk around Golden Gate park, and quickly realised I'd need
to come back with more time up my sleeve.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419596263/in/set-72157647472845853" title="Growl! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7549/15419596263_38712ab674_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Growl!"></a>

This visit was just a teasing taste of San Francisco, but it was enough for me
to know I want to spend a lot more time there.
