---
layout: post
title: "la-mariposa"
tags: Nicaragua, Spanish, school
travel_dates: 2014-02-20 - 2014-03-24
---

One of the goal I set for myself that I wanted to achieve in my travels was to
learn a second language. Years ago, right after living in Europe where every other
people you meet seems to speak 4 languages, I had a go at learning Spanish in
Melbourne but I never found the oportinity to practice outside of class and my
interest waned. Being in Latin America it seemed like a good time to try again.

<!-- more -->

I had heard about a school in Nicaragua near Masaya called "La Mariposa" from
Nick at Poi Love Camp. I did a bit of my own research and the place looked
really good so I signed up for a month of intensive lessons.

The school is set amongst it's own little plot of forest with all kinds of
plants and flowers growing, and quite a few coffee plants too. There were little
sheltered structures around the forests in which the classes often took place,
and the place was full of rescue animals. I think there were 11-12 rescue dogs
on the school grounds alone (there was a separate farm that I believe had
another 20 or so dogs), a number of cats, there was some rescued ??? monkeys,
lots of birds including a pair of beautiful toucans.

All the dogs seemed to be totally friendly to any foreign student, no matter how
new they were, but when a unknown local showed up they would all bark like
crazy. I'm told it's because Nicaraguan don't treat dogs very well.There was one
old senile dog who I took a real liking too, who would just randomly bark at
nothing, sitting happily and calmly between barks. He'd sometimes set off all
the other dogs, and then just go back to sittings and smiling. Maybe he thought
he was telling the turkeys to stay in their turkey enclosure, I don't know :P


I initally chose to stay in their very nice private cabaña because I didn't feel
like I'd have enough language to do a homestay. The cabaña was lovely, away from
the school and the hotel buildings, out in the forest so you could hear all
sorts of animal sounds in the evenings. It was a little 2 storey building made
of a material like bamboo, comprising of three seperate rooms for students. The
walls were full of gaps so it was pretty much open air. There was a mosquito net
but after a few nights I started to wonder if it was even needed, tried sleeping
one night without it and found I didn't get any bites anyway.

One night I had what I though was a spider come out in the cabaña, and I made a
deal with him that if he didn't move he could stay. I looked away for a while
and he disappeared, but I heard he visited the next person who stayed too. I
showed the photo to a guy who knows bugs and it turns out he's not a spider, but
a tailless whip scorpion. I found one in the shower one night and saw him move,
and these guys are crazy fast!

Mornings I would awake to the sound of all the birds making as much noise as
they could. I was really surprised to find out that toucans actually make a
sound that sounds like a frog croaking. I don't know what sound I expected them
to make, but that wasn't it!

There was constant stream of interesting people coming and going each week, far
too numerous to try and list. Everyone from students to doctors, landscape
designers to masseuses. There was a huge cross sections of ages from children
all the way through to retirees. Everyone I met was really interesting, coming
form all walks of life with all different motitvations for learning Spanish. I
think the people really made the month for me and I hope to run into at least
some of you again in the future.

All meals were provided at the school, a delicious buffet of mostly vegitarian
cuisine. Beans and rice were a staple, but there was a nice selection of salad
and other vegatables too, and occasionally some chicken. Everything looked so
tasty that you never felt guilty about going back for seconds when there was
enough. Maybe a dangerous illusion!

The intensive lessons consisted of four hours of 1-on-1 classes per day, five
days a week. The time was split into two hours of grammar, and two hours of
conversation. You got a new conversation teacher each week, but kept the same
grammar teacher throughout unless you ask to change.

I initially got a grammar teacher who spoke zero english, and was hopeful that
it would mean I'd have no choice but to pick things up quickly.

It turns out that's not the way my brain works at all, and I just found myself
frustrated to no end by not having my questions answered beause my spanish wasnt
good enough to express them; And so I changed after the first week to soneone
who had at least a little bit of English.

Maybe it works for some people, but when it comes to somethign dry, complicated
and arbitary like grammar, I feel being able to ask "why?", even if the answer
is just "because that's how it is" is very important. Asking why about something
specific that's bothering you, and then having the high-level basic concept
repeated at me more loudly and more slowly just made me angry and put me in a
state where I didn't seem to absorb any new information.

My other grammar teacher suited me much better, although I feel that learning
grammar in such a robotic way isn't really ideal for me. There must be a better
way, since I can speak English without really knowing the grammar. I actually
questioned my English teaching mother why I don't remember ever formally
learning English grammar and apparently they phased it out when _she_ was a
child, in favour of teaching it through immersion. Hence why I can't say why
something is correct or incorrect English, but I can tell you if is is or not.

My conversation classes were much more enjoyable, covering all sorts of topics
from how life in Australia differs to Nicaragua (a lot), the government, to drug
policies and illegal animal fighting. It was good having a new teacher every
week to keep the conversations fresher.

Classes where pretty flexible; if you wanted to make a trip into town you could
do so with your teacher in tow, allowing you to ask questions and come across
conversation topics that you might not otherwise think of. I even interupted one
class to buy my ticket to Burning Man. A good thing I did too, since they sold
out in 45 minutes; it definitely couldn't have waited until after class.

Pretty much every afternoon, and full days on weekends, the school ran
activities that you could go along on.  Activities included things like visiting
a nearby nature reserve, trips to nearby cities (Leon, Managua, Masaya,
Granada), dinners out, visiting local volcanos, a trip to the beach, horseback
riding, a tour of an organic dried fruit processing plant, a visit to Laguna
Apoya and salsa classes.

Initially I went to way too many activities, and felt that I did not have enough
time for study. Later started being a bit more picky and choosey so I could try
and be a good student too.

One of my favourite regular activities was the weekly talk about the history of
Nicaragua, spoken in very clear, slow Spanish, then translated into English for
those of us without enough vocabulary yet. It was great to see my comprehension
progress each week and it was really interesting to learn about Nicaraguan
history, and made visiting a lot of historic sites more interesting because I
actually knew the stories behind them.

About half way through the month I decided that staying at the school in the
cabaña was letting me be lazy and speak too much English, so I asked if I could
move into a homestay.

I got placed in a home with host mother Jamy, whos daughter Paola and son-in-law
live with them, along with their 2 year old child Camila. Camila was very shy
the first night I arrived, not even saying "hola", but warmed right up to me the
next day, trying to show me every one of her toys, one by one (btw, to a 2 year
old a deck of cards is 52 toys), and by the end I was "Tio Lucas". So cute!

The house was a fairly traditional Nicaraguan house, quite rustic and open,
walls without ceilings under the roof so it was nice and airy. The area, San
Juan de la Concepción, is in drought so they only have water a few times per
week, which mean that the toilet was flushed with buckets, and showers were also
of the bucket variety. It's amazing how little water you really need to get
clean (although maybe I'd feel differently if I had long hair).

Homestay food was a bit different than food at the mariposa. Lots of beans and
rice and chicken for dinner and eggs for breakfast. Nothing a bit of hot sauce
can't salvage, but I did miss all the healthy veggies I had gotten used to. I
was glad that we still got lunch at the school, even in the homestay.

Noise levels in town during the nights wasn't quite as sereen as at the school.
It sounded like there were hundreds of dogs running around barking at each other
every single night. Endlessly. All night. Glad to be a heavy sleeper, so once I
got to sleep I was fine.

One weekend I asked Jamy to demonstrate for me how the old style washboard hand
washing laundry worked but she ended up doing pretty much all of my washing for
me! I did have a go and found that it’s harder work than it looks, although it’s
easier than hand washing in a sink.

Towards the end of my month my grammer teacher started to really pick up the
pace, sometimes covering two or three tenses in a day, getting right through to
the subjunctive. At the time I was thinking it was way more than I needed, but
I've found that it's made revisiting those topics much easier as the seeds have
all been planted.

By the end of a month of study I had learnt a lot of study, and a lot more about
how I learn. I'd thought I'd be much better after a month, but I'm much slower
at learning spoken languages than I'm used to. With most other things, I feel
like I only need to be shown a quick over view and I can figure out the rest,
but with languages the way I think just doesn't help. Too many exceptions to
rules, and too many irregularities for me to just "get a feel for it". It feels
like I'm gonna have to ROTE learn a bunch of stuff if I'm ever going to get to
where I want to be. Looking at it as a challenge for myself; I need to figure
out something that works for me or I'll bore myself to death with repetion :P
