---
layout: post
title: "Excursion highlights from La Mariposa"
tags: Granada, Vulcan-Masaya, La-Boquita, horseback-riding, Managua, León, Laguna-Apoyo
travel_dates: 2014-02-22 - 2014-03-24
---

While studying at La Mariposa I got to take advantage of a lot of free
excursions to cool places around Nicaragua. Here's a few of my favourites from
the month there.

<!-- more -->

Granada
=======

First stop for the day was the cemetery, where we saw the graves of a huge
number of young people who had died in the contra war. It was really sad to
think of how many young men never lived to see 20, fighting in that war. We
learnt that “burial” plots (most of which are actually chambers above ground)
are rented out, and when the family of the deceased can’t afford to pay anymore,
the body gets moved out so another one can take it's place.

We made a visit to a cigar factory and saw how the cigars are made, using 5
kinds of leaves and a press. It was quite impressive to see how quickly they
could roll one up, then finish it off in the press. One of the big fat cigars
and one of the thin ones were passed around for the group to try. I thought the
thin one was much nicer, but both left a terrible stale smoke taste in my mouth.

The cigar factor was also home to a huge scarlet macaw who was quite tame.
Andrei took this great photo with him on my shoulder.

We climbed up the bell tower of the old cathedral to look out over the city.
It gave a nice view of  one of the volcanos, and allowed you to see all the
colonial style court yards in many of the old houses.

went to the old convent, city burned by william what’s his name. model of the city, old nica artifacts

After lunch we took a boat ride out among the 365 islands surrounding Granada in
Largo Nicaragua. Some of them are tiny, while others are fairly sizable. There
were many, many houses out there, some very fancy holiday homes among them.

One of the islands is dubbed "monkey island". It is home to a number of
rehabilitated monkey, apparently put there by a vet. There were 3 spider monkeys
and a white faced one. The way the spider monkeys move is just like in the
cartoons, using their tail as if it were just a 5th arm. Apparently the monkeys
get fed regularly by the vet as the island does not grow food they eat. The
spider monkeys are quite curious and they all come out on the outer branches of
the trees and look at passing boats.

We stopped at a bar on one of the islands for a cold drink and a swim in the
lake. There was a sprung diving board which made for some fun jumping into the
lake, which was a beautiful temperature. Most of the time I'd spent in the water
prior to this had been in salt water, so it was interesting to see how much more
easily I sank in fresh water.

birthday cake for finn, frosting that was soft like cream, but way sweeter
piñata smashing! it turns out they make piñatas here out of ceramic. we had a small mission to keep the dogs from eating any candy or chocolate, but everything went smoothly and finn had a good time smashing the crap out of his piñata. Guilamette also seemed to enjoy it, I have a bad feeling she’s got some sort of disability :(


Vulcan Masaya
=============

One of the afternoon trips was to see an active volcano. It's not actually
Volcan Masaya, which is apparently the dormant crater next to the Santiago
crater.

It's definitely the easiest volcano you can summit, with the car park being
right on the crater rim.

The day we visited it was pumping out a lot of cloudy gas; enough to block out
the sun. This also meant we couldn't see much in the volcano. I'm told that the
lava at the bottom is about 120°C, which sounds pretty hot, but another one in
Nicaragua is supposed to be 400°C and glow much more brightly.

We walked to a few different view points, then went up a nearby hill which
passed the dormant Masaya volcano.

We watched the sunset from the top of the hill, with the gases from the volcano
giving us beautiful oranges, purples and blues.

After sunset, we went to the mouth of a cave after sunset, where tons of bats
flying out to do their thing for the evening. It's amazing how fast they fly and
yet how rarely they collide with anything.

We put on safety hats and got torches, and went 180M down into another tunnel
which was formed by lava flow "recently" (800 years?). Pretty cool to see all
the blue volcanic stone and bubbles. Tree roots were creeping in from the
ceiling giving it a fantastical sort of feeling. When we reached the deepest
point in the cave that we would visit, we all turned off our torches breifly to
experience total darkness. Spoiler: it was black.

La Boquita
==========

One saturday we went to visit a beach down on the Pacific coast named La
boquita. It was a blistering hot day, which mostly consisted of sitting around
chatting with people in the shade, lying in hammocks reading, having a swim in
the waves, and eating seafood for lunch.

There were quite large and powerful waves with a fair bit of current. It was
loads of fun to bodysurf in, although it was pretty hard to keep your head up
when riding a wave and I did get tumbled over in sommersaults involuntarily a
number of times.

I went out in the water with Kimberly and her son, Finn, a few times to put
Kim's mind at ease about having an 8 year old in the water. Finn was determined
that he wanted to go out further, much to Kim's dismay. We took him out pretty
far (for an 8 year old) and he seemed to be having a great time.

I feel like I'm finally starting to come around to kids a bit. I still don't
think I'll ever want one, but I think I'm reaching a point where it won't grate
on me to spend time around them once they're past the screaming poo factory
stages. Maybe being an uncle some day would be cool.

I had delicious ceviche for lunch (raw fish which is "cooked" using the acidity
of lemon juice, no heat involved), then was fed leftover fish from everyone
elses enormous lunches. Thanks guys!

Horseback Riding
================

One sunday morning I went horseback riding with two other students, Nicole and
Caitlin, on some of the horses that live on the school's farm.

The horses looked to be well cared for, we climbed on and were given zero
instructions, so Nicole (an experienced rider) and one of the guides were off
out in front while the rest of us trotted along quite slowly, but still at a
much more consistent pace than the poor pony I rode in Thailand years ago that
only wanted to stop.

After a while we regrouped and took a break, and Nicole gave me a brief rundown
of how to tell the horse what I wanted it to do, and I suddenly found that the
horse was actually very good at doing what it was told. I was much more able to
keep up and even led for a bit.

On a open flat patch I got the horse up to a decent speed, maybe a canter? It
was novel to see how suddenly the ride became much smoother than when we'd been
moving at a slower pace.

At this new faster pace I was a little scared at first, until I remembered being
told I could wrap my legs around the horses belly to secure myself a little
better, after which it stopped feeling like I was going to bounce off.

All up we rode for a bit over an hour, and after getting the hang of it it was
lots of fun.

When we were done we went into the stables and saw a baby foal, barely a few
months old. Tiny horses are very cute!

Around this point I started to sneeze quite violently and repeatedly. My nose
has been a bit twichy before then, but being the in stables seemed to put me
over the edge and into a sneezing fit. Pretty sure I have an allergy to horses
as the sneezing lessened when I went away, but my ichy eyes and a blocked nose
were barely helped by antihistamines later. It kind of sucks to find a new
activity you enjoy, only to find it causes you a lot of other discomfort.

Managua
=======

On another afternoon excursion I visited the Capital of Nicaragua, Managua, with
Debra, Caitlin and Amanda. There's a lot of concrete in the capital, and as such
it feel like it's a billion degrees even though it's only an hour away from the
relatively cool school.

We visited a museum with fosilised footprints, some of the oldest known
footprints on earth, thought to have been created by people evacuating from an
errupting volcano through the mud, with the volcanic ash promptly filling them,
preserving them for centuries.

We went to the National Museum, which fronted onto a big square next to a leafy
park and the skeleton of a cathedral, made structurally unsound in the big
earthquake in 1979.

We also visited the site of Samoza's palace site, which has a lookout over the
city, and on the other side into a laguna, which is apparently still
suffering the pollution from dumping sewerage into it during Samoza's reign. The
only thing left of Samoza's palace was the basement, although the other walls
are opened up now and it is now home to a Sandinista museum.

We went capped off the day going out for dinner at a restaurant by the lake. The
wind coming of the lake made the heat fade away, and it was a lovely evening of
nice food, good rum, and great company.

León
====

Another weekend trip, a visit to León required an early start to the day,
getting up at 5:30 to head to the Mariposa to start the long bus ride to León.

We stopped along the way next to lake Managua to have a look at the view of
Momotombo, one of the many volcanoes across Nicaragua.

We made another stop just outside of León to buy quesillos for breakfast. They
basically a tortilla wrapped around a hunk of cheese (kind of like feta), put in
a little plastic bag and drowned in runny cheese liquid. I ended up having two
because they were so good.

First stop in León was at a family weaving co op, which uses hand operated table
looms to make woven fabrics. We were shown how they make some of the detailed
patterned fabrics using a more complicated loom with four pedals pressed in
different orders. Quite clever stuff!

Next we went to León cathedral, a huge big building currently in the process of
being repainted white. We were able to pay and go up to the roof but it was not
your normal bell tower climb. We went up some narrow stairs next to a 2 story
drop with no hand railing, then out onto the big cylindrical rooftop with no
visible railings to stop you falling off the side of the building if you
slipped. We got a nice view of the city, but I was more surprised/impressed by
the fact we were allowed up there at all. No liability issues here I guess!


Outside the church was big mural that graphically covers the history of
Nicaragua. By this point I was starting to actually feel like I knew a lot of
the important bits of the story, although I suck at remembering specific names
and dates.

After lunch we went to the museum of Myths and Legends. It is hosted in a
building than used to be an old jail, opened in 1921 and closed in 1979. It
contained lots of mannequins of famous Nicaraguans, which if believed to be
anotomically accurate tell us that Ruben Dario had a tiny little head.

Lots of the myths sound like they were made up to scare children and husbands
into behaving themselves. Nicaraguans seem to be very superstitious. A golden
crab seemed to show up a lot, with various versions of the tale saying if you
caught him you'd either have something great happen to you, or something
terrible, depending on which story you believed. Nice and consistent.

Laguna Apoyo
=============

The last excursion, which I actually stayed an extra few days to go along on,
was to Laguna Apoyo, a volcanic crater, now filled with water forming a lake.

It was a very chilled day of relaxing in the sun. I spent quite a while out
floating on the lake in a tire tube, which was more effort than you'd expect
since wind blowing over the surface of the lake was causing waves to form and
take me back towards the shore.

It was nice to spend a last day together with my Mariposa friends, chatting,
eating lunch, and resting in the sun. A perfect way to end of month of fairly
intense learning.

