---
layout: post
title: "Nicoya Peninsula, Costa Rica"
tags: Nicoya-Peninsula, Costa Rica, Montezuma, Santa-Teresa, Surfing
dont_cache_images: true
travel_dates: 2014-02-11 - 2014-02-19
---

So after I was finished in Uvita I headed to the the next place up the coast of
Costa Rica that seems to get rave reviews, Montezuma. Montezuma is talked about
by guidebooks and package tourists as though it's some beatiful and undiscovered
hippy beach town, so I went there expecting maybe something like Byron Bay was
10-15 years ago. I was sorely let down, those people need a reality check IMO.
the place is horribly overrun by tourists. It feels like the last real local
left years ago and now it's nothing but pot smoking gringos, pretending theyre
in some hippy paradise. Having grown up close to both Byron Bay (when it was far
less developed than it is today) and Nimbin (where at least there it's pot
smoking locals), I felt Montezuma brought nothing to the table.

<!-- more -->

I had a lot of trouble finding a decent room. Most places I tried were full up,
with the remaining places either being rather creepy or without lockers. Not
cool with the reputation this place has for thieves getting into hotel rooms.
Eventually I found a place but it was a complete dive.

I went and had a look down the Main Street which all felt horribly touristy. I
really was not getting the draw to this town and still don't. Uvita was waaaay
nicer than Montezuma and cheaper too.

I tried to switch hostels to one of the recommended places the next day to see
if my view on things would change, but they were full up again so I reserved a
bed for the following day after that.

Even after moving hostels to the fully booked one, no one was ever around.

For a town that was full up in terms of accomodation, it was like a freaking
ghost town during the day. It seemed like everyone staying in Montezuma
disappeared off to snorkling tours or surfing lessons elsewhere... why do people
come here again?


It wasnt all shit though, I decided to go see the waterfall, and that turned out
to be worthwhile. The walk to the falls was pretty easy, a lot of rock hopping
over the steam leading away from the falls. The bottom fall was very beautiful,
with lots of people swimming in the pool at the bottom or sunning themselves on
the surrounding rocks. It looked like it would be very dangerous to jump off,
but that didn't stop some folk.

I climbed up to the top of the second fall via the alternate path. There were
some extremely steep parts where you only really had a rope to hold on to to
climb up and down, almost like absailing.

The path went up quite a bit higher than the falls, around the side and then
came back down to the top of the falls.

There were lots of people up there, some ticos were jumping down the second waterfall into the pool below it. I’m told it’s 15M, and it looks like a fairly safe jump straight down. I hear some long screams before they finally hit the water. However, being a solo traveller with no one looking out for me I wasnt willing to jump myself.

I climbed back down to the bottom falls, and went for a swim there. It was cool
that you could get right against the rocks, behind the water curtain and hear
the falls pounding down in front of you.

On my last night there, while wandering around the streets waiting to see the
fire show that happens on thursday nights, I met a friendly American couple who waiting for reggae night in one of the bars to start and spend the night talking with them. It just so happened they were driving to Santa Teresa the next day and so they offered me a lift there with them in their air conditioned 4WD. Score! Sure beat the bus!

I found Santa Teresa to be a much nicer place than Montezuma. There's a long
surf beach going for kms in either direction, mostly with a sandy bottom perfect
for learning.

I walked the whole length of the beach on the day I arrived to get an idea where
places were, all the way down to Playa Carmen; a long enough walk that my leg
were sore afterwards.

I took a surf lesson with Al Chilli Surf Shop, with a group consisting of two German girls and a Korean girl. We were shown how to jump up, practiced on the sand a bunch of times and then went out into the surf with the instructor holding the board and telling us to paddle and jump up as the waves came through.

I managed to get up and ride the wave all the way in a few times, and towards the end managed a few times completely unassisted; I was pretty happy with that!

I happened to be in Santa Teresa at the time of a full moon, and one of the
beach bars was having a big full moon party which I went along to with some
people from the hostel. It was a pretty big night with loads of people. I got to
practice some spanish on some locals and didn't get home until the sun was up.

I felt like crap the next day, awake at 9 because of the heat, but I went out
surfing anyway because I had 24 hours of free board rental with my lesson. I was
really struggling to paddle hard enough because I was so tried, but still got up
a few times.

I had not been paying enough attention and the current took me about 1km down
along the the beach. When I came back in I had no idea where. It took me ages to
figure out which direction to walk to get back, barefoot in the hot road, then
back down to the beach to get my flip-flops.

I went out again the next afternoon with a bit more energy and seemed to be
getting up a bit more easily, but most of the waves were just dumping over in
one go so you couldn't properly catch them.

I ran into Kaya, one of the German girls from the lesson, and her boyfriend
Francisco and hung out with them for the afternoon and organised to meet up
early the next day for a surf. I also went back to the shop and swapped out my
giant 9"2' board for an 8"6', to try out a shorter one the next day.

The next morning we were in the surf at 6am and the waves were pretty good for
about half an hour, but then the surf went flat so we went and had breakfast
together, before going our seperate ways for the day and me having a good nap.

I went back down to the beach at 3pm for another surf and the waves were much
better.  I actually managed to catch a couple before they were fully broken, a
sensation that feels much faster and a lot more fun. I ran into Kaya and
Francisco again and it turned out they were heading up the peninsula in their
car the next day, the same direction as me, and offered me a lift to Liberia,
score!

The drive up the peninsula had roads of quite varying quality. From Santa Teresa
to the close ferry port was pretty ok. From there to the far ferry port was
crazy bumpy and torn up so we crawled along very slowly for that part, but once
we were past there the roads were pretty great so we made good time.

Kaya and Francisco kindly dropped me off at a nice little hotel in Liberia,
where I spent my last night in Costa Rica before getting the bus to the
Nicaraguan border early in the morning.

