---
layout: post
title: "Poi Love Camp"
tags: Costa-Rica, Finca-Mia, Poi
---

Poi Love Camp was an 11 day retreat about spinning poi, held in Costa Rica being
run by Nick Woolsey, the man behind [PlayPoi](http://www.playpoi.com). Also
teaching there were one of my most inspirational spinners Jonathan Alvarez and
the amazingly talented Alien Jon. It'd been on my radar for a little while, but
it wasn't until a few days before Christmas when I decided that I needed to get
out of the European winter that I really seriously thought about going, and a
day later had bought flights and tickets to what ended up being one of the most
fun fortnights I've every had.

<!-- more -->

It was held at a property near [Cerro
Chirrip√≥](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerro_Chirrip%C3%B3) called Finca Mia, a
beautiful eco-retreat up in the hills, with a pretty little river running
through the property.

I got lucky and got a cabin to myself called the sunrise cabin. It only had 3
walls and a curtain for the fourth wall, facing the direction that the sun
rises. It was kind of surreal having a room that just opened straight out into
the forest!

first night quite intimidated to spin in front of jon and nick

fire flies! armadillo, big lizzards

everyone extremely friendly and likeable.

river, icey but refreshing, nice to be in the sun on the rocks afterwards

learned lots, and became aware of a number of weak spots in my poi basics that I
need to work on. left right independence. spotting when turning to reduce
dizziness, footwork. counting different things to fit patterns to music better

pixel poi

lots of flow toys not-yet in the online shop products. capsule handles, capsule
poi, double capsule poi, staffs

choreography

amazing organic food prepared for us every night. best soft tacos ever!


yoga in the morning, stuck it out for about a week before giving in and deciding
my calves and hamstrings are too tight for most poses these days

visit to the hot springs. natural warm water, but routed into concrete pools

went to the local festival, group performed in the bull ring of the rodeo, crowd
loved it and it was heaps of fun

jonathan went into the bullring, partnered up with a local who was shitfaced
drunk and tried to tie up a baby bull

visit ot the local chocolate maker Went to a local chocolate maker and saw how they made chocolate, grinding the cocoa beans in a juicer with some cocoa butter, then put in another thing that rolled the chocolate over for 3 days to get it smooth. we then got to take a batch from 3 days ago and make our own chocolate bars. 75% dark chocolate. I made mine with coffee beans, chilli and sea salt. haven't tried it yet but it sounds interesting

two nights spinning fire, although I only spun on one night. didnt feel very
coordinated. then the second night I felt off it all day and decided I didnt
feel up to it.

visit to playa dominical, heaps of fun body surfing with everyone

hung aroudn at finca mia for an extra few days afterwards, sad to see the group
diminish but cool to get to spend some extra time with those who stayed on
