---
layout: post
title: Target 40 Litres
tags:
- Pre-trip
- Packing
- Bags

---

So when I was last in the adventure district looking at travel gadgets and
clothing, I was talking to one of the staff in the store and he put the idea in
my head that travelling with just a small backpack would make a lot of things
easier.

It means you can keep your bag with you in a lot of situations where you’d
otherwise have to leave it in the luggage section and hope it doesn’t get
searched through too much by dodgy characters, and it allows you to use crowded
public transport much easier, or even just walk distances that you wouldnt want
to get stuck lugging a heavy pack.

I’ve been looking at this bag in particular, the Osprey Farpoint 40: 

->[![Osprey Farpoint 40](/images/osprey-farpoint.jpg "Osprey Farpoint 40")](http://www.ospreypacks.com/en/product/backpacking/farpoint_40?tab=description)<-

It’s a 40L backpack small enough to be allowed on airplanes as cabin luggage.
It seems pretty sturdy and from my searching, reviews seem to be generally
positive. It’s good a nice section in the front that holds a laptop & ereader.
It’s got a lifetime warranty, and the guy at the store was telling me they’d
send you out a replacement bag to wherever you are at that time, if it broke
for any reason.

If I do get this bag, I’m planning on getting one of these neato dry daypacks:

->[![Sea To Summit Dry Daypack](/images/dry-daypack.jpg "Sea to Summit Dry Daypack")](http://www.seatosummit.com/products/display/162)<-

It’s a lightweight bag that I could use day to day for carrying my camera and a
jacket, it’s water proof and it folds down into a tiny little sack roughly the
size of a tennis ball, so when I’m not using it, it would fit inside my main
bag easily.

It’s 3 weeks from now until departure< day, and I think it’s looking like I
actually might meet my goal of fitting everything into 40 L. I’m not planning
on taking too many clothes and my trial pack on the weekend made my 70L
backpack look ridiculously large. I think I need to commit to the idea, get the
bag and start making sure everything fits as well as I hope it will.

