---
layout: post
title: "Phu Qouc Island, Vietnam"
date: 2013-05-19 22:24
tags: vietnam, motorbikes

priority: 0.5
---
Taxi from there to my hotel, checked in and the first room smelt a bit so I asked if I could change rooms and they put me in a much bigger room, which still has some odd odor in it but I guess the whole place has that smell.

I did some washing in the bathroom sink and nearly accidentially tore it off the wall. it turns out it was held up by the plumbing and two flimsly little brackets, which I bent a bit (and then bent back as well as I could).

I went for a walk towards the main part of town and stumbled across the night markets, where all kinds of fresh seafood was available to be purchases and BBQ'd up for you there on the spot, along with some fruit stalls and souviener stalls. I found a place that made avocado smoothies, one of the amazing discoveries from last time I was in vietnam and was happy to find it was just as tasty as I remembered.

I bought some squid that was fresh enough that you could poke it and it's skin pulsed through different colours and a garlic sea snail. The squid was divine but I'm not so sure about the texture of the sea snail. The enthusiastic and friendly guy who talked me into buying from him told me he's a guide during the day and offered to take me around the island on his motorbike tomorrow. He seemed like a fun guy so I agreed.

After I ate I bought some fruit who's name I'm not sure of. As I was paying I got distracted by a very young beggar boy, who I ended up giving 5k of my change, but in the process forgot to actually take the fruit I paid for with me :(

I got a motorbike home and chilled out in my room for the night. after about half an hour it bucketed down with rain, prompting me to check the forecast for tomorrow and it doesn't look great. 70% chance of rain and thunderstorms. Maybe a day for me to go without my phone and camera, wear contacts and take a rain jacket and expect to get really wet :P

nsit
