---
layout: post
title: "Uganda"
date: 2013-10-14 18:07
author: 
categories: 
description: 
priority: 0.5
---
white water rafting in jinja,

tyler - guide
scott & michell
jess & adel
John
Emma

Category 3-5 rapids

initial safety training, jumping in, flipping the boat, climbing back in. I was one of the only two people who could actually get back in unassisted, quite chuffed

rapid 1 was a 3 meter waterfall

flipped the whole raft on the third rapid, instantly forgot everything about holding onto paddle and lost it right away, came up under the boat under the baffles and couldnt surface, repeated a few times. Started to panic for a bit but managed to calm down and realise that I can easily hold my breath for more than a few seconds, so held breath and fumbled my way to one of the sides of the raft and grabbed onto the rope. struggled to keep my head above water in the rapids for a bit, but once we were past them it was a fine.

8 rapids total, most of them grade 4 or 5

the white nile river flow is very high volume, which means the rapids are really big, but also really deep so much less chance of coming into contact with rocks. More exciting and more safe!


dam built two years ago changed the river a lot. none of the old rapids still exist, but new ones have formed. we're told that they used to have the best rapids in the world before the dam was built.

rafting used to start from the campsite we were staying at, but now it's just a gental river for that part and we had to drive 30-40 minutes to the in point

lunch was awesome salad wraps with chicken and guac

on the last rapid of the day we were told that if we didnt flip, tyler would give the ok and we could all jump out if we wanted to. it was an awesome feeling being in the turmolutous water, being well clear of the boat. felt like being in a giant washing machine with the water dragging you in every direction, rapidly one after another.

spent part of the day 2nd from the front, and then the other half of the day in the very front


budongo forst, chimp tracking

group split in two, only 12 people allowed in the forrest at once, two groups of 6. I went in as part of the first group. forest felt quile a lot like aussie rainforest.

we heard chimp sounds off in the distance, and saw several nests that they apparently make at night and use only once. after a while we heard more chimp calls behind us and realised we'd passed them somehow. 

went back and found 6-7 chimps walking along one of the tracks, one carrying a baby on it's back. watched one climb up a treat and eat it's fruit, dropping the nuts or seeds down.

watched another one on the forrest floor, having something to eat and just generally lazing around.

rerouted route due to bad weather meant a long backtrack to kampala


full day drive to QE2 national park

game drive, got to use the roof seats on the truck. saw some lions look like they were hunting, but then they got lazy and started sleeping. village in the park, stopped there and had a look at some hippos in the lake. steve warned us not to get too close, but didnt specify how close. consenses was that inside the hippo was probably too close. saw a lion eating in the distance on our way out of the park. also nearly got taken out by some accacias over the road that didnt give us much clearence

afternoon sunset cruise, probably the most densley packed period of animal watching all trip. loads and loads of hippos, and exotic birds.

saw a hippo mark it's territory, pooping while helicoptering it's tail, stuff flying everywhere

old male buffalos, sitting in the water chased off from their herds. retirement

hippos running around at night, waking people up. 


Drive to lake bunyoni, lovely camp ground next to a very large lake with more than 20 islands in it. 6600ft deep!

village tour, crazy old lady that felt everyone's butts, girls boobs and guys beards.

school for orphans and the needy. sat in on lessons for addition, subtraction, multiplication and spelling. almost everything had a song, "Teacher, you're so good and precious".

kids 3-8 years old

singing and dancing in the playground, amanda "volunteered" me to go in the middle and dance with one of the little girls, full of confidence and rythmn.

helped feed the kids snacks, bread, banana, rice, poridge, orange drink

spelling bee to win extra pieces of fruit
canoe ride back in dugout canoes

watched hotel rwanda on steves laptop, like an african schindlers list on the last night before entering rwanda.



