---
layout: post
title: "Istanbul, Turkey"
date: 2013-12-20 19:52
author: 
categories: 
description: 
priority: 0.5
---

After flying into Istanbul Attaturk airport we spent the morning hiding out at
the airport in the air conditioning and waiting for the time we'd agree to meet
at our apartment with our AirBNB host. We got a taxi from the airport and my
first impressions of Istanbul proper were that everything appeared so clean,
modern and organised. The highways were multi-lane, there was nobody wandering
out trying to sell things to passing traffic, traffic flowed very quickly and
efficiently, people drove on the correct side of the road and actually stayed in
their lanes for the most part. It's amazing how much your direct prior
experiences can colour your perceptions of a place, the Turkey we were seeing
was at odds to the reputation that the place generally has for it's drivers.

The apartment we stayed in was located very close to Taksim Square, consisting
of the whole top floor of the building and a rooftop courtyard and a fantastic
view of the Bosporus. Having modern conveniences like a fridge, a washing
machine and air conditioning felt very luxurious after having just spent 5 weeks
camping in tents.

As soon as we'd put our bags down we headed out in search of food and quickly
located our first kebaps of the trip. Very delicious and super cheap too. We
continued up to Taksim square and found that the top corner of the square
consisted of about 6-7 kebab shops all side by side, which we soon dubbed the
kebab district. We made pretty regular trips to the kebab district on a quest to
find out which one had the best kebabs but it was sort of inconclusive, they
were all delicious!

Sadly that first night I got the news of my grandmother's death. She was my last
remaining grandparent and it was going to be sad news to get whenever it came,
but being surrounded by friend was probably the best I could have hoped for
while being so far from home.

All of us headed over to the Egyptian bazaar the next morning to do some
exploring. The Egyptian bazaar is right next to the grand bazaar, but a bit
smaller and (apparently) a bit less tourist focused although looking back I'm
not remembering a lot of stuff there I could imagine the locals coming to buy.
Maybe the bulk tobbaco and spices, but not the 100s of hookahs or the Kilos of
turkish delight.

We all agreed the place felt fairly busy and bustling, but people seemed a lot
less forceful about getting your attention or dragging you into their shops than
we were used to so it felt quite a bit more relaxed than Africa. It's
interesting to read reviews of the bazaar on trip advisor where a lot of people
complain about how invasive the touts are and how they couldn't cope with it
all, and it really goes to show just how subjective all the reviews on there are
and how much each individuals past experiences factor in.

We went an wandered around the Grand Bazar, which as the name implies is a
really huge market. The place had a strange air of familarity to it and
eventually it clicked that Constantinople that Assasin's Creed Revelations is
set in, is the same city that eventually became Istanbul. I realised I'd already
visited the Topkapi palace virtually, and even assassinated a Czar there. I find
it thoroughly impressive that I can start to feel like I know my way around the
city, based on the map design of a video game set in the city hundred of years
earlier.

We found the carpet sellers had interesting and quite well thought out tactics
for trying to get you into their shops. Instead of just outright saying "come to
my shop", they'd often just be wandering around near tourist areas and off some
help or show you around, tell you some historical information about the place;
just generally being friendly and helpful, and then after they'd developed a
feeling of being in-debt to them, then they'd very friendlily offer to take you
to their friend/brother/cousins shop and show you around.

This obviously still didn't work well on me (not having a home is nice like
that), but I have to admit I actually felt a bit bad for them compared to the
average touts, and could imagine the tactics would be quite successful on a lot
of people, in at least getting them into the shop.

One of the less commonly visited places we visited in Istanbul was the
Australian consulate. Not because somebody lost their passport, but to vote in
the Federal election. The consulate was on quite a high floor in a very fancy
hotel (The Marriot? I have no internet right now to check) so the views were
fantastic. It was illegal to take photos in there, but laws like that are just
plain stupid so I ignored them.

Amanda, Luke and myself visited the cistern, A huge underground chamber with row
after row of columns supporting the ground above it. It's claim to fame is
having been in a Bond movie (it starts to feel like every city has at least one
place from a Bond film after a while), and has some mysterious Medusa heads on
their sides as the base of two of the columns. Extra weird when you remember
this was a water storage chamber, so nobody would have actually been able to
ever see them in it's day cause it would be full of water.

We went into The Blue Mosque, which was a very beautiful building, but the
inside of it felt spoilt by the very low hanging racks of lights, suspended from
the ceiling by a thousand wires. It really stopped the space from feeling as
vast and open as it could have felt.

We were all super impressed to see that they even let women pray inside, but
only from inside a little caged off part at the back where they cant be seen. So
very progressive, nice one Islam! You've managed to make Tony Abbott seem a little
less misogynistic in comparison.

We met up that afternoon with Leigh and Nicolette for our last drinks together
as it was their last night before they were leaving us and heading back home to
Scotland :(

Luke, Amanda and myself went out on an evening boat cruise on the Bosporus, which was a beautiful chance to see the city at night from the water.

We'd seen that a dentist convention was being held in town, and we actually passed it, lit up Colgate sign being the give-away.

We passed under the 
colgate signs. passed under the bridges, got to see their light shows. Amanda
feeling pretty unwell, taxi home.


move from our airbnb apartment to a hostel over in the old city, friendly staff,
nice room and a rooftop bar with an amazing view of the blue mosque.

archeology museum, exhibit on underwater shipwrecks, with the wood preserved by
being covered in silt, so completely wet they cant dry it without it warping.
need to dry the wood very gradually.


went into topaki palace, magnificent grounds, some nice cafes and restaurants.
lovely mix of colours and architechture

misunderstanding about the musuem card, only valid for a single entry at each
place , so I had to rush through the Harem (only accessible from inside the
palace) too.

interesting quarters for the sultan and his family and his concubines, but many
secetions (ie. concubine baths) were completely closed off for restoration
works.



went through the ancient religious relics section, rather dull IMO but it was
interesting to see a guy sitting at a desk doing prayers live into a microphone
that was being piped around the exhibit. I'd assumed they were prerecorded

beard trim from a barber, first time I've paid a barber in probably a decade.
very thorough work, thinning sides and gave it a better shape. shaved head with
a straight razor, trimmed nose hairs, eye brows, ear hairs, then waved a lit
cotton tip around my ears to burn off hair and wax. much neater.

went to hagia sofia "museum", used to be a mosque, not really very much info.
much more open feeling, aside from the half of the space that was full of
scaffolding.

went out for dinner and had testi kebabs. comes out in a clay pot that they
smash the neck off to serve your meal. amazingly tender meat, so delicious.

traded off some of my left over duty free raki at the hostel bar for some free
beers! saved me trying to deal with the extra weight on super budget flights low
luggage allowance


up early the next day for our flight to Goreme, capadocia.
