---
layout: post
title: "Barcelona, Spain"
date: 2014-04-08 16:43
tags: Spain, Barcelona
description: 
published: false
dont_cache_images: true
priority: 0.5
---

Even in winter the weather is Barcelona is nice. As soon as I landed and got my
bag through customs I put my heavy winter jacket away and was quite happy in
just a T-shirt. It seemed like the warm weather would be great for helping me
kick a cold that had been hanging around for my last few weeks in Berlin,
leaving me sniffing and congested.

<!-- more -->

lazy walk around berlin enjoying the warmth

tapas, catalonian sausage and papas bravas, delicious but very garlicy


free walking tour of barcelona. learnt about some unique catalonian christmas
traditions. Caga Tio (or uncle shit), a log that kids beat with sticks each day,
to aid with digestion, so on christmas day he will poop out candy under his rug.
also, the pooing man, in nativity scenes.

tour made me realise how little I know about spanish history. they had a
dictatorship up until 1975

read in the park

met up wit Ibrahim and Nathalie to go to a really nice tapas place they knew.
amazing sangria, tasty steak bites, croquettes wth spreadable chorizo and melted
cheese. very yum

went to guell palace, the home of the guell family, renovated and opened to
tourists since the last time I was in barcelona. gaudi designed, very beautiful.
lots of nice curves and colour, lovely rainbow twisted chimney

plaza de españa, old bullring that's been coverted into a shopping center. got
up on the viewing platform for free, nice view of the city. nearby hotel with an
infinity pool that the roof looks straight onto

monjac castle, memories from last time I was there, very much the same except
now it's free to enter.

date with Mercé, went to see the "magic fountain". ridiculous crowd and the show
was delayed, later fireworks went off and we found out it was for some very
wealthy families wedding. NYE standard, epic.

didn't really hit it off with merce, went to an irish bar for a few drinks
before parting ways.

went to sagrada la familia, but the queue went right around the block because of
the public holiday. went to park guell instead, but the public holiday meant it
was packed with people like a circus and not the peaceful, pretty park I
remembered. really challenging to get a photo of any of the real typical parts
of the park without some twat, or group of twats, posing in front of it. it was
like an endless line of people waiting to rush in. went home frustrated and
sick of being sick.

went to a couch surfing meeting at a little flamenco concert. met a bunch of
lovely south americans. flamenco show had interesting guitar and singing and
some very passionate dancing. I had a "front fow" seat, with mean the woman was
often looking right at me, 2ft away, making me a bit uncomfortable.

nice chillian girl, Natalia, insists that I get in touch with her where I go to
chilie or uragay, so she can hook me up with friends to stay with

went to casa batillo, another home designed by gaudi. more lovely curves,
spirals and gradients of colours. the building looks like a dragon along the
rooftop from the outside. beautiful furniture, would have been an amazing place
to live.

went back to sagrada la familia, much shorter lines this day. has been made a
basiica by the pope in 2010. sadly lots of scaffolding covering my favourite
facade. ETA is 2030 so I may actually see it finished in my lifetime. realised
from a model they have of the completed design, that the 5-6 tallest towers
arent not built yet, so the "jesus" tower is going to be 2x as tall when it's
done. compltetely epic.

love all the clean completixy of all the shapes involved, all coming back to
simple math concepts. interesting museum underneath that I don't recall from
last time.

Started to wonder what my photos from last time I visited looked like, and if I
had enough foresight to take photos of both the completed and under construction
areas to compare. this time I took lots of photos which while just construction
now, will be great to look back on in 20 years, seeing this massive structure
still heavily in progress

December 11th
