---
date: 2014-12-16 21:02
layout: post
title: "The Bay Islands of Honduras"
tags: diving, Utila, Roatan, Honduras
travel_dates: 2014-05-11 - 2014-05-25
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16036987811/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Utila's beach by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7476/16036987811_2a9ba6b7cf_c.jpg" width="800" height="267" alt="Utila's beach"></a>

After making a one night stay in San Pedro Sula, home of the worlds worst murder
rate, I headed over to the coast and got a ferry to Utila; one of the
Bay Islands of Honduras.

<!-- more -->

I had gone there with the idea in my head that I wanted to stop and do dive
master training, a cheap way to get in a few month of daily diving. I had
flights booked to go up to California for a fire spinning festival in 2 weeks
time, so this visit was mostly just about shopping around and seeing how the
various schools compared.

As soon as I got off the ferry and mentioned I was considering doing my DMT, I
had a shop offer me 2 free fun dives with them, even after I made it clear I was
shopping around. The offer remained, so I had my first shop locked in!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853183127/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Utila from the water by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7520/15853183127_77791cc3a5_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Utila from the water"></a>

The diving around Utila was really good. The reefs were healthy looking, some of
the walls were fantastic, the there was a good amount of aquatic life around.
Big crabs, lobsters, cowfish, drumfish (especially the juveniles), bearded
toadfish, free swimming green moray eels... plenty of cool stuff every dive.

During the week on Utila I ended up diving with about 5 or 6 different shops,
and got a much better idea about the things that are important to me in picking
where I want to do more training. Some had tiny boats and some had fairly big
boats. Some went to the better diving on the north side pretty much daily,
others only went 1-2 times a week. Some were so relaxed about safety that they
weren't even doing a head count, let alone boat roll calls, when diving north
side (2 hours from the inhabited part of the island, pretty poor IMO) while
others were clearly following good procedures.

One night I was in a bar (ok, nearly every night... often it feels like more
people are on Utila for the parties than the diving) and I got talking with some
guys who turned out to have a set of fire poi and some kerosene, so we all
headed to the beach to spin fire. It was my first time spinning with real flames
in about a year, but it was also the first time I know of that I've been
videoed, so I can actually show more than just still images for a change.

<div class="videowrapper"><iframe width="420" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/LMa0Ox5I3N4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

Looking at the video afterward, I can see a lot of places where I was falling
into pretty dull repetitive sequences, but I still think there's some good stuff
in there. I feel like I'm a shit load better today, but then again I mostly spin
LED poi so I probably cant do everything I can do now if I was using fire poi.

Later that night I went along to a beach party and a couple of other spinners
where doing their thing. I asked if I could have a go and the small crowd seemed
to really like it. I had a few people come up to me randomly in the bar
afterwards and ask about it, if I was a part of the performers. Lots of
encouragement and support, pretty damn good for someone who hates being in the
spotlight, I think it helped a lot with my fears and anxieties.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16013168646/in/set-72157649802065395" title="A baleada - the staple food of Honduras by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8601/16013168646_89e64ea82e_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="A baleada - the staple food of Honduras"></a>

I pretty much lived on baleadas the whole time I was on Honduras. A baleada is
basically like a big cheesy quesadilla with different fillings, like chicken and
avocado, which I would then apply liberal amounts of hot sauce to. A place on
the island called Mamma Rosa Baleada had them for just a few bucks and they were
so big they hung over the edge of the plate, so I ate there every day, sometimes
more than once.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15853182307/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Inside a baleada by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8634/15853182307_d98fc373a6_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Inside a baleada"></a>

There were a few things I really didn't like about Utila. The first of those is
the sand flies. The bastards are everywhere and insect repellent doesn't work for
them. One day just before (or maybe just after) rain, they were super intense.
Horrible itchy bites all up my legs :( Some people claim that baby oil on your
legs will stop them because they cant land or drown in it or something, but I
tried it and it didn't seem to do anything. Maybe I needed to shave my legs to
make it work. Way worse than mosquitos.

The second pet peeve was the motorbikes and taxis that are ruining Utila. For a
tiny little 1 road strip, there's a horrible amount of traffic constantly
zipping past, just barely missing people. They nearly always seemed to be full
of lazy locals, which makes a nice change from seeing them full of lazy
tourists.

In the end my pick of the dive shops for Utila would be Utila Dive Centre, they
ran a very professional environment with quality gear, they have a number of
boats of different sizes and I just got a good vibe from them. Of course I wasn't
ready to commit to anything without having also checked out Utila's neighbouring
island, Roatan.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851500988/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Roatan looking stormy by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7567/15851500988_46d02430fb_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Roatan looking stormy"></a>

After a week of changing dive shops every day, and not really feeling like I was
making much of a connection with many of the people I was diving with, I decided
in Roatan I was more interested in just checking out the various dive sites and
deciding if the diving was better there or on Utila, so when I arrived I picked
a shop and I stuck with them the whole week I stayed.

I stayed the first two nights on the island with two girls I met on the ferry
over, Nev and Tandea, since the price of a room for 3 was the same as dorms, and
the three of us went with Reef Gliders, the dive shop that offered a discount on
the accommodation where were were staying.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851502248/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Sunny when we got to Roatan by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7473/15851502248_1d7cab6108_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Sunny when we got to Roatan"></a>

Most of the week I was diving with the same divemaster, a guy named Mickey from
South Africa who'd come to the island a decade or so ago, just for a week, but
never left. Mickey is a guy who never dives without his camera, and I later
found out that one of the Caribbean reef life photo books that you find in
nearly every dive shop in along the Caribbean Coast is actually entirely by him.
You could not get a better DM to dive with for fish ID!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16038257952/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Me, Mickey and Hagn by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7461/16038257952_acbc499417_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Me, Mickey and Hagn"></a>

The diving was good at Utila, but it was amazing on Roatan. I can tell you for
certain, all those backpackers making claims about how there's no point going to
Roatan over Utila and that it's just for rich tourists, are just regurgitating
what others have told them because a) the diving is both a lot better and a lot
lazier (longest boat ride was 10-15 minutes from the dock) and b) the prices are
actually very similar to Utila. I think over the course of 10 dives it was less
than $50 difference, although restaurants were admittedly more expensive (street
food was cheap though!).

My favourite dive was at a site called Texas. It's a site off the tip of the
island which almost always has a lot of current, although there was apparently
abnormally little the day I got to dive it so apparently there was less marine
life activity than usual but it was still amazing. Since there's current you do
the dive as a drift dive, where you get in at one place and let the current take
you while the boat follows on the surface; it makes for extremely lazy diving.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419306323/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Barracuda by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7545/15419306323_dde483b5e9_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Barracuda"></a>

The site gets it's name, because like the state, everything is bigger at Texas.
The reef you're drifting above is massive, trailing off for hundreds of meters
in every direction, one direction sloping down until you couldn't see anything
but blue. We dropped down to about 25 metres, probably 2-3 metres above the
reef, and floated along at a nice lazy pace for the duration of the dive,
eventually popping up on the surface what must have been at least a kilometre
from where we started.

During the dive we saw loads of big stuff. Probably a dozen or more really big
groupers, some turtles who cruised along with us for a while, a number of squid,
and easily the biggest lionfish I've ever seen.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15419297383/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Floating around by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8617/15419297383_491ae12e21_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Floating around Jesus"></a>

We also made a stop to check out "Jesus", one of the many massive barrel sponges
down there. I'm told that some of them are thousands of years old, and Jesus is
one of the biggest ones. It's opening would probably be about the size of your
average household washing machine, the thing was enormous! Sadly, we found that
a big chunk from the top of the sponge had very freshly been sliced by a
fisherman's line. It wont kill it, but it's a shame that something thousands of
years old can get damaged like that.

Another notably unique dive was a site called the bear's den, when you go down a
dark tunnel into a rock (with a flashlight) which opens up into a cave with a
"skylight", big enough to have 5 divers in there at once. It really was the sort
of cave you'd imagine a bear would live in, except it was some 25-30M underwater.


<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16038957555/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Scorpion fish I spotted. Really by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7473/16038957555_9c84103598_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Scorpion fish I spotted. Really"></a>

Loads of the dives were walls of coral, dropping down well below the depths you
can go down to on scuba, many with big canyons and swim-throughs zig-zagging
back and forth, but one of the coolest ones was at Haller deep. There we dropped
down to 41M where the wall went from a slope to a near vertical drop, and you
can see nothing but dark blue below you. We saw a pretty sweet turtle down there
with a shark sucker cleaning him.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851678960/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Turtle and a shark sucker by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7535/15851678960_5d59acd3ae_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Turtle and a shark sucker"></a>

We came up from down there slowly, through a number of long tight swimthroughs,
following the reef back towards the island where we saw pipefish, a pipehorse,
scorpion fish and a few green eels.eventually we passed through a shallow part
of the reef with a max depth of 3M before dropping back down to about 5M to
another bit of reef where we had a bunch of snorkellers above us and we saw
flounder, yellow line arrow crabs and razor fish. Total bottom time was 63
minutes, pretty amazing to have a dive where we had stuff to look at at both 41M
and 3M, and be down there so long.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15852911659/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Roatan's resort beach by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7547/15852911659_8acc16ecd9_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Roatan's resort beach"></a>

By the end of my time on the island, I was pretty sure I would want to do my DMT on
Roatan over Utila, but actually less certain that I wanted to sign up for it
right away. I decided to put it off until at least after Burning Man, and until
I'd seen the reefs in Belize and Cozumel, just in case they were even better
again.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15851689530/in/set-72157649802065395" title="Macaw wants to eat my camera by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8580/15851689530_5b5986a5f5_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Macaw wants to eat my camera"></a>
