---
layout: post
title: "Granada"
date: 2014-04-20 17:07
tags: example, tag
description: 
published: false
dont_cache_images: true
priority: 0.5
---

From Barcelona I got the overnight train to Granada. It left quite late in the
evening, and arrived in Granada at about 9 the next morning. I had some sleeping
pills and slept as well as is possible on a train, but was still exhausted when
we arrived.

I headed to the hostel that I'd looked up online beforehand and checked that
they had a bed for me. It was too early to check in but they let me lock up my
bags in their storage room and allowed me to eat breakfast.

<!-- more -->

Over breakfast I got talking with a friendly girl named Emily from Adelaide, and
decided to go on a free walking tour with her and her other Adeladian friend
Connor.

The tour was led by a nice guy named Borja, a student who'd been living in
Granada for some time. 
Rachel from Chicago and Jack from Hobart

orientation of the old part of the city

Interesting yo learn about the trouble unesco causes for people who can't afford
to maintain their houses, huge fines and eventually having to give up their
houses to unesco. Lots of abandoned properties.

borja told he that he'd spent some time lviing in a cave house at one point.
also that granada got a bit lonely because nobody stays for long, students come,
study and leave so you only know people for a few years.

after the tour ended Went and had tapas lunch with people from tour, 2€ for a
beer and 3 tapas! orangised to meet up with everyone again the evening to see a
band Borja was in perform.

The beer and my tiredness meant I went back to the hostel and slept for a few hours.

found Em and Connor down in the common area and headed to the bar, the place was
tiny! and jam packed. again every drink came with tapas, they'd ask you which
drink you were up to because there was obviously a sequence that you got them
served in.

the band was great, very imformal feel to things, very expressive singing.
rachel even broke out into song at one point, and boy can that girl sing. if
being a chef gets old, she's got potential to make a living from that voice.


Met up with Em and Connor at breakfast and decided to go up to the Alhambra
together. Fell up two steps on the way and sprained my left ring finger :(

heard stories about how you needed to book days in advance, but we all got lucky
and Got allocated a entry to the palace pretty much right away, so we headed
straight there

incredibly intricate carvings, so huge and so detailed. very impressive. some
parts still painted, would have been amazing to see with the full colour

interesting restoration technique where they embed the new material with UV
reactive stuff, so it can appear “normal/fixed” to the naked eye but still be
obvious which parts are truly original

rachel arrived and caught up with me, and the other girls sped off ahead during
the palace visit

me and rachel went and explored another building, a big square building, that
had a circular open courtyard in the middle and some museums

went and explored the barracks and towers, ran into em and connor again

headed up to the generlalife gardens, lots of fountains and water-staircase.

went and had tapas and beers with Rachael at a little place called restaurante
boabdil, tiny little place with stainless steel benches and little bay-maries
full of food. very utilitarian vibe, but the food was super tasty and the beers
were only 1.70E

met up with Em and Connor, then went to the fountain to meet up with Borja to go
on the cave tour. Jack also made it back for the tour and had apparently been up
to the Alhambra as well although we missed him

Cave tour took us up the hill to a few nice view points, then up to the hippy
caves, only a few of who have power via solar panels. even these caves were a
lot more established than I had been expecting

Went right up to a nice wall to sit on and watch the sun set, then walked down
the other side via the less established cave section. random couch overlooking
the valley. got told about an old dude running a tea cafe out of a cave over the
other side of the hills.

tour ended and we went on a little tapas crawl, first place had awesome jamon,
next place had delicious cheese and jamon

went to a flamenco show, only 6E. was worth seeing, but not something I’d seek
out again. the dancing is impressive but the singing isn’t to my liking and the
little cave/basement it was in was pretty dingy.

next day

went up to the Alhambra gardens with Em, Connor and Rachael

Went and found ismael, the hippy dude who lived over the hill in a cave and ran
a teteria. beautiful view and amazingly fancy tapas with our tea

hung out at the hostel for a bit, then went out for a drink with the girls,
before em and Connor had to go get their lift to seville

went to Nuestro Bar, recommended by Chris Kolester with Rachel, fairly large
serves of lots of fried food. very cheap, but not the best quality

Went exploring with rachael, started in the jewish district, then went over
where there was supposed to be lots of graffiti, then went over around the
cathedral

Gypsy ladies trying to give us rosemary, shouting at us in spanish, rachel
thinks they cursed her

went and found alahabra beer at a pretty nice tapas place for lunch. had bacon
cheese rolls, prawns, chorizo, delicious spicy salty squid

went for a walk/hike along the other side of the river, nice view of the caves,
found some more caves on that side of the river too.

went exploring up the hill again in search of snail restaurant, but sadly it was
closed. energy levels plummeting, came down the hill and parted ways for a few
hours to rest and sort out my plans for cordoba

Met up with Rachael and went to Babel tapas bar, world fusion food. very tasty
but the service was very poor. two drinks and tapas took probably and hour and a
half.

then went back to the ultra budget place from the other day, delicious tapas,
cheerful bartender, beer had a funny taste but was cheap enough to make up for
it. ordered some snails, a huge bowl full (like 40 snails or something) they
were kind of odd textured, but not particularly great. I prefer the french style
ones where you get 6 and they just taste like butter and garlic.

went to los diamontes, seafood tapas place. pretty disappointing. very noisy, no
music and the prawns they served us were still with shells

decided to call it a night after that

checked out of hostel and then chilled in the common area for a while on my
laptop

went out to have a look at clothing shops around granada, so many awesome hippy
clothes, loads of stuff way different than anything at rainbow serpent, lots of
it made in nepal. I should go there on a shopping trip

got the bus to Plaza de Toro to meet Andrés, the guy from blablacar who I got a
lift to Cordoba with. He drove quite a nice BMW, only 2 doors and actually kind
of cramped with 4 people in it but a pleasant experience all the same

found hostel, feels like I may be the only person in there

went out for a little explore of the town, very quiet, admittedly it is sunday
night

had Flamenquín for dinner, restaurant empty, pretty overpriced

came back to hostel, pretty tired. room to myself
