---
layout: post
title: "Turkey"
date: 2014-02-06 11:03
tags: Turkey, Mediterranean
published: true
priority: 0.5
travel_dates: 
---

After Istanbul our next stop was in Göreme, where Amanda, Luke, and I, stayed in
a fairy chimney hotel. These were rock formation that had been eroded away into
conical shapes, that had rooms carved into them, with some brickwork to divide
up the space.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11922915693/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Me in front of my cave hotel in Göreme by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3751/11922915693_7c1de35fca_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Me in front of my cave hotel in Göreme"></a>

<!-- more -->

We went on several tours that took us around to many of the highlights of the area.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11923143174/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Passageway in the underground city by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7305/11923143174_5ba05eb4ec_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Passageway in the underground city"></a>

We visited Derinkuyo, the underground city that's 16 levels deep, 8 of which we
visited. It was quite similar to the Chu Chi tunnels in Vietnam, but generally
much taller, although we did go down a few very very short & dark ones where you
pretty much had to crawl. We were told that the estimated capacity of the city
was about 5000 people.

We took a walk though the Ihlara valley, a very scenic valley lined with caves,
pigeon holes, a cave church and a creek running down the bottom. Actually seeing
real life pigeon holes gave me a real "wow, I'd never even though about that"
moment abut the pigeon holes that teachers have in their staff rooms; they
really do look quite similar.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11923605856/in/set-72157639724831244" title="That moment when you realise why teacher's pigeon holes were called that by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3762/11923605856_00854f75ef_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="That moment when you realise why teacher's pigeon holes were called that"></a>

We were taken on a tour of a carpet making factory which had silk dyed in all
the colours of the rainbow. We saw a woman making a carpet with 100 knots per
square cm, which is quite a lot.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11923393174/" title="Silk carpet colours by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7322/11923393174_f93c4a25cd_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Silk carpet colours"></a>

We were taken to a show room and shown a bunch of carpets, each unrolled with a
lot of showmanship, and told how to tell a real fancy silk carpet over a cotton
one, but in all honestly I thought the cotton ones felt a lot nicer and softer
and were hugely cheaper.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11922968545/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Unrolling carpet by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3800/11922968545_984ae22dbd_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Unrolling carpet"></a>

One night we went and saw a traditional dancing show, show casing many kinds of
traditional Turkish dance. First up was some whirling dervishes dressed in
white, spinning under UV lights with all the other lights dimmed down. Although
seeing them was actually the original draw card for me, I didn't actually find
them all that interesting so I was glad their part of the show was short.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925904714/in/set-72157639724831244" title="UV whirling dervishes by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3682/11925904714_4e3a280f9b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="UV whirling dervishes"></a>

There were many other styles of dancing with the men and women in some very
fancy costumes, and of course some belly dancing.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925508115/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Boobs! and belly dancing by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3779/11925508115_f0ae1be732_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Boobs! and belly dancing"></a>

In one part of the show they had some crowd participation where they got
everyone up on their feet in a circle around the middle part of the room. Amanda
kindly volunteered me for one part where I had to go out in the "stage" and copy
the "seductive" dance moves of one of the guys to try and win a kiss from
another female volunteer from the audience, which I of course fail at doing
(they later pick her partner out form the audience, who surprise surprise is the
one she kisses).

I got up early my last morning in Göreme to see the hot air balloons flying
over. We didn't actually go up in one because we'd only just done a balloon ride
in Africa a few weeks earlier but it was beautiful to see so many balloons
floating over the town.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926395756/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Lots of ballons over Göreme by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7330/11926395756_8ac928a965_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Lots of ballons over Göreme"></a>

From Göreme we got the night bus to Antalya down on the Mediterranean coast, and
learnt our lesson in "a night on a bus does not really get you an extra day
anywhere" because you sleep so poorly that you just want to nap all day once you
arrive. It was a pretty decent coach, with in seat entertainment for every seat
just like a plane, but it stopped every few hours and was generally hard to get
any sleep on.

I made myself go out exploring in the heat that first day there and found the
very modern main street surrounding the old city (where we were staying), with a
water feature running down the length of it between the road and the tram line.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925809383/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Just your average soldier sitting on a bench by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3680/11925809383_84a6656f8b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Just your average soldier sitting on a bench"></a>

There was a cool pedestrian street with 100s of open umbrellas
making a sort of shade over it which made some great photos.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925813553/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Umbrella street! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7395/11925813553_20ce39c8e0_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Umbrella street!"></a>

Pretty much every inch of pavement in Antalya (and just about everywhere in
Turkey) was made of marble, polished by the millions of people walking on the,
which makes them very slippery and nearly put me on my arse more than a few
times. I hate to think what it would be like in the wet.

Luke and I had a "small" night out where we went over the road to the bar across
from where we were staying for a few quiet beers, which lead to a lot of very
noisy beers, which somehow led to us cranking
[Neelix](https://soundcloud.com/neelix) over the bar sound system, the bar
tender rocking out to it, me breaking out the poi and attracting some locals to
come and watch the spectacle.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926466696/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Bar tender rocking out to Neelix by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7435/11926466696_9f09d95c99_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Bar tender rocking out to Neelix"></a>

Luke and I woke up the next day with no recollection of having paid, and
returned sheepishly later that afternoon only to be told that it's all good and
we apparently had. Quiet drinks fail.

We had nasty hangovers that could only be cured by going and getting a decent
breakfast at the beautiful Castle Cafe, with stunning views over the
Mediterranean,

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926477836/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Stunning place to have breakfast by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3727/11926477836_c66732ce69_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Stunning place to have breakfast"></a>

Followed by an afternoon down at a private beach were we could
laze in the sun under umbrellas and read, swim and snorkel a bit.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925622605/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Private beach by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7380/11925622605_5801810ebe_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Private beach"></a>

While in Antalya I made a visit to a 600 year old Turkish bath, an experience that had come highly
recommended from just about everyone I'd spoken to about them, and it lived up
to the expectations.

Nobody in the place spoke English so the whole process was carried out with
pointing and gesturing. I was sent into a little room with a towel to get
changed into, which then turned out to double as a giant locker to lock my stuff
up in.

I was then sent downstairs into the actual bath area into a small marble room
containing a hairy man sluicing water about. He sends me into the next room with
a bit of a grunt and a point of his finger.

The next room is built in the shape of a large cross with very high vaulted
ceilings, and several smaller rooms opening off it. Inside it was quite humid
but not hot. There nobody else in the room with me and every move I make seems
to echo quite loudly.  I sit for a while wondering if I should be doing
something, then try sluicing myself with some water and wait some more until
eventually the hairy man returns and gestures that I follow him.

He gets me to lie face down on a marble slab, with a semi-circle pillow under my
face and a bit of pool noodle under my shins. He then pours warm water all over
me, then scrubs me down with a loofah glove. Next he gets a pillowcase-like sack
that's full of soapy suds, fills it with air and then squeezes it out through
the sack to make foam for the soap massage, which seems like pretty much a
normal massage but with soap.

I'm turned over and the process is repeated on my front, with the addition of
some quite rough amateur chiropractic work involving crossing my arms over to
the elbow and shoving until there's crack.

Finally I'm rinsed off with water, then led out to cool off and drink some apple
tea and eat some fresh fruit before heading back into my change room to get
dressed. I certainly walked away feeling cleaner than I had since going to
Africa. It would be the perfect thing to tack onto the end of Rainbow Serpent
Festival each year! :D

Our next stop was Pamukkale, which is famous for its massive salt formation hill
thingy which we first saw from right where the bus dropped us off. In looks a
lot like a ski slope except the weather is painfully hot and it's covered in
women in bikini's posing for their boyfriends for their next Facebook avatars.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925926943/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Rainbow beanbags looking onto Pamukkale. It looks like a sky slope! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3694/11925926943_b269a5aa3b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Rainbow beanbags looking onto Pamukkale. It looks like a sky slope!"></a>

Most of the slope has water running down it most of the time (I'll come back to
this later) and there are signs everywhere warning that it is wet and could be
slippery, but we quickly found out from out first step that it's actually quite a roughly
textured surface and not at all slippery. There are pools all the way up the
slope which look man made, each pool being slightly warmer than the last as you
make you way up to the source.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926542516/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Me in front of what looks like giant cauliflower by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3756/11926542516_b400cb2c35_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Me in front of what looks like giant cauliflower"></a>

At the top you see there's a lot of plumbing and artificial terraces, making it
feel a bit like a natural treasure that's been destroyed. I did some research
and found out that the state it is in today is actually way better than when it
got UNESCO conservation status in 1986, before which it had been royally screwed
up. There used to be a bitumen road right up the slope (where you're allowed to
walk today, and where the man man pools are) and hotels built at the top on top
of the ruins of Hierapolis; incredible to think they could let that happen. The
waste from the hotels had just been pumped out onto the salt slopes, staining
the whole thing dirty brown colours instead of pure white.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926162064/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Like a winter wonderland, but with more people swimming by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5476/11926162064_97d9839037_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Like a winter wonderland, but with more people swimming"></a>

Them turning off the water to various parts actually gives the sun a chance to bleach
parts of the salt slope to try and undo some of the damage, so even though it
feels a bit artificial I think it's a good thing what they're doing.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926145184/in/set-72157639724831244" title="The place is surreal looking by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3739/11926145184_5f2aa8b3be_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="The place is surreal looking"></a>

We went back a second time and found that the water was routed a completely
different way, creating new waterfalls in places and stopping others. I went up
the top and explored the ruins of Hierapolis, probably the only place in the
world where you'll find bikini clad girls posing in an ancient amphitheatre, and
on other ancient ruins.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926007323/in/set-72157639724831244" title="It's not every day you see girls in bikini's posing in roman ruins for their friend with an iPad by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5550/11926007323_0369614729_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="It's not every day you see girls in bikini's posing in roman ruins for their friend with an iPad"></a>

Our next stop was in Selçuk where our accommodation, Wallabies Hotel has a
lovely view of the aqueducts that run through the city, although the bathroom
door is missing the handle and we need pliers to open it, there's no hot water
and there's some festival going on outside until late into the night making tons
of noise and the windows block nothing. In short it's a bit of a shithole,
especially considering the travel agent who organised it claimed how he had lots
of very fussy Korean customers and none ever complained. I've stayed in plenty
of worse hostels, but they weren't claiming to be hotels.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926182813/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Aquaduct out our window by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7385/11926182813_b5d03679ec_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Aquaduct out our window"></a>

The draw card around Selçuk is the ancient ruins of Ephesus (or Efes), a 1000
year old Greek city. Tour buses seem to arrive there at regular intervals so you
need to time your movements so you're in between the hoards of 30-40 people in
each group to get a look at the place without it feeling like your at some sort
of circus, but when you time it right it can feel like you've got the place
almost to yourself.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926059043/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Ephesus amphitheatre by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5503/11926059043_0659c79edc_c.jpg" width="800" height="248" alt="Ephesus amphitheatre"></a>

There are some very impressive terrace houses there, once owned by individual
families. The archways in them and the mosaic floors would be considered quite
impressive features in a modern house so it's sort of mind blowing to think that
individual families dwelled in such luxury thousands of years back. Naturally
the families were high up in various religious groups *rolls eyes* so very
philanthropic they tend to be.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925809785/in/set-72157639724831244" title="The terrace houses by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7297/11925809785_969eb17702_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The terrace houses"></a>

Another thing of note the façade of the ancient Library of Celsius which is
really cool. The architects used thinner columns on the outside and thicker ones
towards the middle to add even more grandeur to the already impressive size of
it using optical illusion. Pretty amazing technology for 1000 years back.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926684906/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Celcius Library by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7330/11926684906_65f8da843e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Celcius Library"></a>

There was a long marble avenue that lead down to where the harbour used to be,
but it was roped off not far down from the amphitheatre. I wanted to see what
was down there, so I found an unmarked path through the scrub that led in the
right general direction which eventually came out at the very far other end of
the avenue. I could see no signs of the port, but looking down the avenue back
towards the city it was easy to imagine how vastly wealthy the city must have
been back in it's day.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925884335/in/set-72157639724831244" title="I'm not supposed to be here, the other end of the harbour road, zoomed out to to 28mm by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7436/11925884335_1a7ecfca8d_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="I'm not supposed to be here, the other end of the harbour road, zoomed out to to 28mm"></a>

I took a slightly different way back that led past harbour gymnasium, parts of
which looked like they could fall down at any minute and actually stated to feel
pretty unsafe, wondering if there could be large not-yet-excavated caverns below
me, so I quickly made my way back to the normal path. Just as I got back where I
was supposed to be I passed a security guy going the other direction talking on
his radio. I like to imagine that I got spotted from afar and he'd been sent off
to tell me to get out of there, but he was probably just sneaking off for a lazy
break or something.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926758296/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Precarious by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5549/11926758296_7eeb1991c7_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Precarious"></a>

While in the area I made a day trip to the beach. On arriving, the forest
leading up to it felt pretty much like it could have been somewhere on the north
coast of NSW, lots and lots of spaced out gum trees. Seems to strange to find
them in large numbers in other countries of the world.

As I approach the beach it looks brown and pretty unappealing, but as I reach
the water I find the water moving over the sand actually makes the sand sparkle
like gold glitter. It's extremely pretty, but not an effect that translated very
well to still photos, or even video, but trust me I tried!

<div class="videowrapper"><iframe width="640" height="480" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/7hRSuxPWIrM?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

After Selçuk I parted ways with Luke and Amanda as they were flying on to Rome
and I had decided that I wanted to spend more time along the Mediterranean
coastline. I hate saying goodbye in general, I never seem to be able to pick a
moment that feels natural, but longer goodbyes are the worst. It was at least
nice to know it was only for a month or two before we'd cross paths again, and
in a way it felt nice to have the freedom to do whatever I felt like doing
again, without having to consider what anyone else wanted. Maybe a little
selfish to be thinking that way, but so what?

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11926407314/in/set-72157639724831244" title="The shiny lights of Bodrum by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3758/11926407314_9bd6a9105c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The shiny lights of Bodrum"></a>

My first solo stop was in Bodrum, where I visited their underwater archaeology
museum, which is in the Bodrum castle. Bodrum itself was a pretty horrible
resort town; think beached completely covered in sun-lounges with loads of bright
red tourists sunning themselves laid out on them... really not my sort of place.
My lack of interest in the city combined with the inspiration to go diving from
seeing all the information about how they lift the shipwreck relics from the sea
bed had me leaving pretty quickly and heading for Kaş.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11925961955/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Sea floor recreation of an ancient shipwreck by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7365/11925961955_d4bf0a60cc_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Sea floor recreation of an ancient shipwreck"></a>

It was fantastic to get back in the water and dive again once I got to Kaş. I
went out with a shop called Bougainville Divers with a fairly advanced
divemaster/guide, Peter, who dives with a side mount setup (no tank on his back,
they're clipped loosely at his sides instead), a setup I'd heard about but never
actually seen anyone using before. It sure is an interesting way to rig your
gear and actually lends itself to travelling with your own gear quite well. From
the feedback I got from him, it seems that all my shallow water pier diving back
in Melbourne has paid off in spades and my trim in the water looks like that of
someone with two or three times as many dives as I have done. A nice little ego
boost!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935191264/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Having a look inside by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3778/11935191264_007cb56ff0_c.jpg" width="800" height="533" alt="Having a look inside"></a>

Marine life in the Mediterranean is actually pretty sparse compared to
everywhere else I've ever dived, the area has been heavily overfished and even
with Kaş being in the middle of a conservation area there's not a lot of fish
around. I did see a lot of tiny stuff like nudibranches, but pretty much no schools
of fish, and even very few individual fish.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11934780975/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Group photo by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2824/11934780975_5e57d070ee_c.jpg" width="800" height="534" alt="Group photo"></a>

I got to do a dive at the Dakota, a Turkish Red Cross plane (a DC3) which was
bought, stripped and sunk as an artificial reef. Because it's not a plane that's
crashed, the whole thing is intact and it's really quite surreal to see what is
a somewhat large plane, 30 odd meters underwater with fish swimming through
it. It's pretty cool to get to have a look through the cockpit window and swim
around and have a look at the propellers and the tail fin, and even penetrate
into the hull of the plane.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935009263/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Me @ The Dakota DC3 by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3753/11935009263_54404c9d38_c.jpg" width="800" height="534" alt="Me @ The Dakota DC3"></a>

I also dived a few shipwrecks in the area, some steel ones that were quite
obviously ships, and some wooden ones of which very little was left. Some of the
wooden ones were at least somewhat modern, as the things that remained were PVC
piping and a ceramic toilet! Others were much much older, with broken amphora
(ancient ceramic jars) and ancient stone boat anchors being all that was still
evidence that it was a ship.

While in Kaş I got in touch with some people through couchsurfing and met up
with them; Ümit, a Turkish dude who spun fire poi and Maie-Anna, a girl from
Germany who lives in Kaş now and was bursting at the seams with energy. I ended
up going out dancing with them at the very basic local nightclub that played
very trashy music but it was lots of fun.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935604836/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Fire poi by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7310/11935604836_7e412e1909_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Fire poi"></a>

After Kaş I headed to Olympos, a sleepy little village right near the ruins of
the ancient city of Olympos. I stayed in a great hostel that had a huge outdoor
area consisting of tree-house lounges and hammocks, which I made extensive use of
in the week I stayed there.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11934879555/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Olympos, Hammockville by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5548/11934879555_5f87af50b6_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Olympos, Hammockville"></a>

Every morning there was a huge buffet breakfast that filled me up enough so I
didn't really need to eat lunch, and then also a huge delicious buffet dinner,
all included in the accommodation. All for ~$20 a day!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935385724/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Sample of the nightly buffet, included with the accomodation by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5499/11935385724_4c8b4c059c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Sample of the nightly buffet, included with the accomodation"></a>

It was a great chance to unwind after travelling too fast, for too long, and
finally de-stress a bit. I had lots of much needed alone time, sometimes
wandering off and finding a spot to myself where hours would pass without even
hearing another person.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935076383/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Large arch at Olympos by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5526/11935076383_0a1a5e54ae_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Large arch at Olympos"></a>

My week consisted of walks down to the beach, practicing my poi, and lying in
hammocks reading. It was a lovely way to unwind.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935090743/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Ruined castle poi by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2882/11935090743_14c3dab717_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ruined castle poi"></a>

One day I climbed up to the ruins of an old castle up on the hill. The path
leading up to it passed by lots of overgrown brickwork up to the castle, where
the remnants of a two storey building with a few arch doorways were still
standing. I could see where the floor of the second floor would have been, with
the regularly spaced holes in the wall where the floorboard supports would have
been. Another day I swam out to a not-so-secret cave and found that some of the
ground I was standing on taking photos that earlier day was actually on top of
an huge arch, probably 40 meters above the water and rocks. Eeek!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935285354/in/set-72157639724831244" title="Hilltop castle by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7359/11935285354_47513ae588_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Hilltop castle"></a>

The last place of note I visited in Turkey was up to Mount Chimaera, where
fire spews out from holes in the ground which was really neat to witness.
Apparently the locations of the fires change daily as some fires go out and
others new ones spark up. Stories tell that the fires used to be bright enough
for the ships to see, so it was sort of like a ancient lighthouse for the area.
It's also where the original Olympic flame came from, and has reportedly burned
continuously for 2500 years

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11935144653/in/set-72157639724831244" title="The natural fires of Mount Chimaera by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5538/11935144653_e621d7e506_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The natural fires of Mount Chimaera"></a>
