---
date: 2014-09-10 10:09
layout: post
title: "La Mariposa Spanish School, Nicaragua"
tags: Nicaragua, Spanish-schools, homestay, volcanoes, dogs, monkeys, La-mariposa
travel_dates: 2014-02-20 - 2014-03-24
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14734597870/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Another path through the gardens by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3880/14734597870_987294e82c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Another path through the gardens"></a>

One of the goal I set for myself that I wanted to achieve in my travels was to
learn a second language. Years ago, right after living in Europe (where every
other person you meet seems to speak 4 languages) I had a go at learning Spanish
in Melbourne but I never found the opportunity to practice outside of class and
my interest waned. Being in Latin America it seemed like a good time to try
again.

<!-- more -->

I had heard about a school in Nicaragua near Masaya called "La Mariposa" from
Nick at Poi Love Camp. I did a bit of my own research and the place looked
really good, so I signed up for a month of intensive lessons.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14898204176/in/set-72157646060932408" title="One of the many paths at in the school forest by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3916/14898204176_d012b81354_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="One of the many paths at in the school forest"></a>

The school is set amongst it's own little plot of forest with all kinds of
plants and flowers growing, and quite a few coffee plants too. There were little
sheltered structures around the forests in which the classes often took place

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14734681567/in/set-72157646060932408" title="P1200563.jpg by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3862/14734681567_ceccfd311c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="P1200563.jpg"></a>

The place was full of rescue animals. I think there were 11-12 rescue dogs on
the school grounds alone (there was a separate farm that I think had another
20 or so dogs), a number of cats, there was some rescued white-headed capuchin
monkeys, and lots of birds including a pair of beautiful toucans.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14898247896/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Sleeping dogs by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5596/14898247896_c6a9620dbe_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Sleeping dogs"></a>

All the dogs seemed to be totally friendly to any of the students, from the
first moment they arrived, but when a unknown local showed up they would all
bark like crazy. I'm told it's because Nicaraguan don't treat dogs very well.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14918356031/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Ol' Barkey, loves to bark happily at nothing at all by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3904/14918356031_2658312997_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ol' Barkey, loves to bark happily at nothing at all"></a>

There was one old senile dog who I took a real liking too, who would just
randomly bark at nothing, sitting happily and calmly between barks. He'd
sometimes set off all the other dogs, and then just go back to sitting and
smiling. Maybe he thought he was telling the turkeys to stay in their turkey
enclosure, I don't know :P

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14734617077/in/set-72157646060932408" title="My Cabaña by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5584/14734617077_07b32f0275_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="My Cabaña"></a>

I initially chose to stay in their very nice private cabaña because I didn't feel
like I'd have enough language to do a homestay. The cabaña was lovely, away from
the school and the hotel buildings, out in the forest so you could hear all
sorts of animal sounds in the evenings. It was a little 2 storey building made
of a material like bamboo, comprising of three separate rooms for students. The
walls were full of gaps so it was pretty much open air. There was a mosquito net
but after a few nights I started to wonder if it was even needed, tried sleeping
one night without it and found I didn't get any bites so I stopped using it.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14918206221/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Tailles whip scorpion by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3854/14918206221_e947eaa47f_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Tailles whip scorpion"></a>

One night I had what I thought was a spider come out in the cabaña, and I made a
deal with him that if he didn't move he could stay. I looked away for a while
and he disappeared, but I heard he visited the next person who stayed too. I
showed the photo to a guy who knows about bugs and it turns out he's not a
spider, but a tailless whip scorpion. I found another one in the shower one
night and saw him move, and these guy can move crazy fast!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14921336735/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Toucan by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5584/14921336735_bc23f284bf_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Toucan"></a>

Mornings I would wake to the sound of all the birds making as much noise as they
could. I was quite surprised to find out that toucans actually make a sound that
sounds like a frog croaking. I don't know what sound I expected them to make,
but that wasn't it!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14735389279/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Some of the loveliest people at la Mariposa by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3855/14735389279_6c72440139_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Some of the loveliest people at la Mariposa"></a>

There was constant stream of interesting people coming and going each week, far
too numerous to try and list. Everyone from students to doctors, landscape
designers to masseuses. There was a huge cross sections of ages from children
all the way through to retirees. Everyone I met was really interesting, coming
from all walks of life with all different motivations for learning Spanish. I
think the people really made the month for me and I hope to run into many
of you again in the future.

All meals were provided at the school, a delicious buffet of mostly vegetarian
cuisine. Beans and rice were a staple, but there was a nice selection of salad
and other vegetables too, and occasionally some chicken. Everything looked so
tasty that you never felt guilty about going back for seconds when there was
enough. Maybe a dangerous illusion!

The intensive lessons consisted of four hours of 1-on-1 classes per day, five
days a week. The time was split into two hours of grammar, and two hours of
conversation. You got a new conversation teacher each week, but kept the same
grammar teacher throughout unless you ask to change.

I initially got a grammar teacher who spoke absolutely no English, and was
hopeful that it would mean I'd have no choice but to pick things up quickly.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14898236806/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Chooks by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3876/14898236806_a366d33a74_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Chooks"></a>

It turns out that's not the way my brain works at all, and I just found myself
frustrated to no end by not having my questions answered because my Spanish wasn't
good enough to express them; And so I changed after the first week to someone
who had at least a little bit of English.

Maybe it works for some people, but when it comes to something dry, complicated
and arbitrary like grammar, I feel being able to ask "why?", even if the answer
is just "because that's how it is" is very important. Asking why about something
specific that's bothering you, and then having the high-level basic concept
repeated at me more loudly and more slowly just made me frustrated and put me in
a state where I didn't seem to absorb any new information.

My other grammar teacher suited me much better, although I feel that learning
grammar in such a robotic way isn't really ideal for me. There must be a better
way, since I can speak English without really knowing the grammar. I actually
questioned my English teaching mother why I don't remember ever formally
learning English grammar and apparently they phased it out when _she_ was a
child, in favour of teaching it through immersion. Hence why I can't say why
something is correct or incorrect English, but I can tell you when something
sounds wrong.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14918204491/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Duck with ducklings by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3909/14918204491_afd8cdc995_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Duck with ducklings"></a>

My conversation classes were much more enjoyable, covering all sorts of topics
from how life in Australia differs to Nicaragua (a lot), the government, to drug
policies and illegal animal fighting. It was good having a new teacher every
week to keep the conversations fresh.

Classes where pretty flexible; if you wanted to make a trip into town you could
do so with your teacher in tow, allowing you to ask questions and come across
conversation topics that you might not otherwise think of. I even interrupted one
class to buy my ticket to Burning Man. A good thing I did too, since they sold
out in 45 minutes; it definitely couldn't have waited until after class.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14734768958/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Beautiful colours in the smokey sunset by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3894/14734768958_4c67bf81a6_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Beautiful colours in the smokey sunset"></a>

Pretty much every afternoon, and full days on weekends, the school ran
activities that you could go along on.  Activities included things like visiting
a nearby nature reserve, trips to nearby cities (Leon, Managua, Masaya,
Granada), dinners out, visiting local volcanoes, a trip to the beach, horseback
riding, a tour of an organic dried fruit processing plant, a visit to Laguna
Apoyo and salsa classes.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14735363988/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Laguna Apoyo by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3853/14735363988_fc13c94049_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Laguna Apoyo"></a>

Initially I went along to way too many activities, and felt that I did not have
enough time for study. Later started being a bit more picky and choosier so I
could try and be a good student too.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14735343797/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Pretty lights by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3853/14735343797_de55c0b041_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Pretty lights"></a>

One of my favourite regular activities was the weekly talk about the history of
Nicaragua, spoken in very clear, slow Spanish, then translated into English for
those of us without enough vocabulary yet. It was great to see my comprehension
progress each week and it was really interesting to learn about Nicaraguan
history, and made visiting a lot of historic sites more interesting because I
actually knew the stories behind them.

About half way through the month I decided that staying at the school in the
cabaña was letting me be lazy and speak too much English with other students, so
I asked if I could move into a homestay.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14918977571/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Jamy, Paola and Camila by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3838/14918977571_207c20c6c7_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Jamy, Paola and Camila"></a>

I got placed in a home with host mother Jamy, whose daughter Paola and son-in-law
live with them, along with their 2 year old child Camila. Camila was very shy
the first night I arrived, not even saying "hola", but warmed right up to me the
next day, trying to show me every one of her toys, one by one (btw, to a 2 year
old a deck of cards is 52 toys), and by the end I was "Tio Lucas". So cute!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14735355189/in/set-72157646060932408" title="My homestay house by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3916/14735355189_9d270afc6a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="My homestay house"></a>

The house was a fairly traditional Nicaraguan house, quite rustic and open,
walls without ceilings under the roof so it was nice and airy. The area, San
Juan de la Concepción, is in drought so they only have running water a few times
per week, which mean that the toilet was flushed with buckets, and showers were
also of the bucket variety. It's amazing how little water you really need to get
clean (although maybe I'd feel differently if I had long hair).

Homestay food was a bit different than food at La Mariposa. Lots of beans and
rice and chicken for dinner and eggs for breakfast. Nothing a bit of hot sauce
can't salvage, but I did miss all the healthy veggies I had gotten used to. I
was glad that we still got lunch at the school, even in the homestay.

Noise levels in town during the nights wasn't quite as serene as at the school.
It sounded like there were hundreds of dogs running around barking at each other
every single night. Endlessly. All night. I'm lucky enough to be a heavy
sleeper, so once I got to sleep I was fine.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14922026385/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Where I learnt how to do laundry with a wash board by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3839/14922026385_204520233b_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Where I learnt how to do laundry with a wash board"></a>

One weekend I asked Jamy to demonstrate for me how the old style washboard hand
washing laundry worked but she ended up doing pretty much all of my washing for
me! I did have a go and found that it's harder work than it looks, although it's
easier than hand washing in a bathroom sink.

Towards the end of my month my grammar teacher started to really pick up the
pace, sometimes covering two or three tenses in a day, getting right through to
the subjunctive. At the time I was thinking it was way more than I needed, but
I've found that it's made revisiting those topics much easier as the seeds have
all been planted.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14735484887/in/set-72157646060932408" title="Me and Paulette by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3874/14735484887_517a204416_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Me and Paulette, the woman behind the school"></a>

By the end of a month of study I had learnt a lot of study, and a lot more about
how I learn. I'd thought I'd be much better after a month, but I'm much slower
at learning spoken languages than I'm used to. With most other things, I feel
like I only need to be shown a quick over view and I can figure out the rest,
but with languages the way I think just doesn't help. Too many exceptions to
rules, and too many irregularities for me to just "get a feel for it". It feels
like I'm gonna have to ROTE learn a bunch of stuff if I'm ever going to get to
where I want to be. Looking at it as a challenge for myself; I need to figure
out something that works for me or I'll bore myself to death with repetition :P

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14918342771/in/set-72157646060932408" title="I'm on a horse by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5556/14918342771_ed49e169d2_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="I'm on a horse!"></a>
