---
date: 2014-10-30 19:13
layout: post
title: "Nicaragua, all over the place"
travel_dates: 2014-03-22 - 2014-05-??
tags: Ometepe, Jinotega, Somoto-Canyon, Nicaragua
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15614210236/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Volcan Concepcion from Finca Magdelena by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3949/15614210236_d979e62583_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Volcan Concepcion from Finca Magdelena"></a>

After leaving La Mariposa, I headed to the island of Ometepe and met up with
some friends from La Mariposa who were staying at an old farm house called Finca
Magdelena. It was just $6 a night for a private room, and they made amazing
French toast that I had for breakfast most days.

<!-- more -->

Mostly I just relaxed, caught up on reading, and worked through some of  my
Spanish workbook. Occasionally I even left the farm!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15452118857/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Ojo de agua by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3956/15452118857_80083c1b67_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ojo de agua"></a>

One day we made a trip to Ojo de Agua (Eye of the water), a beautiful green
freshwater pool build over the source of a naturally occurring mineral stream.
Lovely clear water, probably 50M long and deep enough to really swim laps. I
could open my eyes underwater and see quite clearly, no stinging at all. The
pool combined with a few "coco locos" was an enjoyable way to spend the day.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15018262093/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Getting smashed by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3941/15018262093_ddc8430f6b_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Getting smashed by the waterfall"></a>

Another day, Andrei, Morgan and myself went for a hike to see a waterfall with
some local guides. It was a reasonably long walk up the hill to what turned out
to be a small but refreshing waterfall.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15017671414/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Our guides and their noisey car speaker by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3941/15017671414_133331e863_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Our guides and their noisey car speaker"></a>

One guide had one of the toy car speakers that every Nicaraguan seems to own.
Turning it on plays a loud engine revving sound and a horn honking, and then
starts blaring the owners taste in music through a tinny speaker with massive
levels of distortion. Really painful to listen to, and he kept turning it on at
really inappropriate times too; oh look there's a nice bird, I bet he wants to
hear the shitty car make some noise, oh no, he's flown off. I was silently
thrilled when the batteries died. Good riddance.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15639281572/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Stilling moonshine by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3947/15639281572_e79957326c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Stilling moonshine"></a>

On the walk back down we stopped in at a little house with an illegal still
making moonshine. Andrei got a drink bottle full of the stuff, but my goodness
did it taste awful!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15459758699/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Looking out from half way up Maderas by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3949/15459758699_cb68988ba5_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Looking out from half way up Maderas"></a>

Another day I hiked halfway up Volcan Maderas to the lookout, a nice view of
Volcan Concepción. I left at 11, back down by 1:45-2, which seemed like pretty
good time, I'd heard 2 hours each way. the last few hundreds metres before the
lookout to Concepción was really tough; super slippery and wet. Not super muddy
by that point, but I could already tell my shoes wouldn't be up to the whole
climb. I'm ok with that since everyone I spoke to who had gone to the top said:
a) it was bullshit hard for the second half of the climb and worse for the
decent, and b) there was no view at the top. Half way was plenty for me!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15622780706/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Melinda up at tree by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5605/15622780706_80e62e9251_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Melinda up at tree"></a>

After a while I started to feel like I had gotten stuck on the island. When a
nice girl named Melinda who I met at the farm was leaving, I decided to go and
travel with her for a few days. If not for her, I might still be on Ometepe
today.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15647332352/in/set-72157648995463971" title="The ugly ass cross on the hill at Jinotega by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5604/15647332352_9fdf2081c6_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="The ugly ass cross on the hill at Jinotega"></a>

We headed up into the hills of Jinotega, home of this gaudy cross, decked
out with spectacular florescent tubes.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15018150423/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Chicken bus fun with Morgan and Andrei by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5616/15018150423_f6ac26ae92_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Chicken bus fun with Morgan and Andrei"></a>

Travelling around Nicaragua, I just about entirely got places using the chicken
buses. these are the old USA school buses, often pimped out with fancy paint
jobs and blinking lights. I was really impressed by their frequency, I don't
think I ever had to wait more than an hour for one, even without ever checking a
timetable. I managed to cover some fairly large distances in a day without much
planning. Luggage would go up on the roof most of the time, sometimes with
people bringing all sorts of strange things to go up there. One time that stands
out in my memory, we stopped somewhere and some guys were loading ceramic pots
and vases onto the bus roof, actually throwing them up one at a time to someone
on the roof. I was waiting for someone to miss catching one but they seem like
they do this sort of thing all the time.


Melinda had to go to El Salvador to get her flight home, so I met up with some
new people and we headed over to Somoto to go and check out Somoto Canyon. I'd
never been canyoning before, and it turns out that it's awesome fun!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15646709545/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Hiking into Somoto Canyon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5609/15646709545_455161bf3d_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Hiking into Somoto Canyon"></a>

At the canyon there's an unofficial guide office right on the highway where
loads of people hassle you, but we went further down the path and found the real
place, where the money is actually shared among the all the guides and a portion
goes to support the local community. We got a guide named Ramone and his uncle Trino, both of whom were really nice.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15460084789/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Somoto Canyon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7526/15460084789_befd8f6ac7_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Somoto Canyon"></a>

The hike into the canyon was about 1km of walking in the hot sun before we got
wet for the first time. The cool water of the river flowing through the canyon
was super refreshing.  Initially we were just wading through ankle deep water,
but soon enough it got deeper and we were waist deep, and then not much later is
was too deep to touch and we were swimming down the canyon.

During the day we alternated between rock hopping, hiking, swimming, and
climbing over precariously steep rock faces.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15026603033/in/set-72157648995463971" title="First jump by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7519/15026603033_6bbc1d97b9_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="First jump"></a>

We jumped off 3 rocks into the water below throughout the day. The first was
probably 4-5 meters, and my feet hit the bottom pretty firmly. Glad I wasn't
stupid enough to dive!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15461202130/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Still falling by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7464/15461202130_538b51639f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Still falling"></a>

The Second place was in a deeper part of the canyon, maybe a 6-8 M drip and it
seemed like a huge jump at the time.  It was a difficult scramble to get back up
from the lower pool to the rock again, but it was fun so we jumped off this one
twice.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15026678733/in/set-72157648995463971" title="The high jump by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7524/15026678733_f8eb3d11c3_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="The high jump"></a>

The third and final place was 20 M further along the canyon, a big 10 M drop. The
jump itself wasn't too bad, I had a little fear before I jumped but it was fine
once I was in the air.  The terrifying part was the climb up to get to the spot
to jump from. It involved climbing up a pretty shear rock face without great
foot or hand holds, wearing shoes. It was quite challenging to not slip and fall
and hurt ourselves. Compared to the climb, jumping was easy.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15460921427/in/set-72157648995463971" title="The end of the canyon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7522/15460921427_d2ba31baa8_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The end of the canyon"></a>

At the end of the canyon we saw lots of groups of Nicaraguans on the short tour
(we'd opted for the long one because you get to see a lot more of the canyon.
Apparently not many locals do the medium or long tour because they can’t swim.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/15460782828/in/set-72157648995463971" title="Paddle boats by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5604/15460782828_14e827449f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Paddle boats"></a>

For the last little part of the canyon, we loaded 15 people into a tiny little
boat, to get us past the last long bit of river. With that many people in the
boat it was barely above water. Not sure how it would have ended with a bunch of
people who cant swim if anything had happened.
