---
layout: post
title: "Barcelona, Spain"
date: 2014-04-08 16:43
tags: Spain, Barcelona
description:
published: false
priority: 0.5
---

Even in winter the weather is Barcelona is lovely. As soon as I landed and got my
bag through customs I put my heavy winter jacket away and was quite happy in
just a T-shirt. It seemed like the warm weather would be great for helping me
kick a cold that had been hanging around for my last few weeks in Berlin,
that had left me sniffing and congested for far too long.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809549773/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Sagrada Familia by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3669/13809549773_b5c9a73fbe_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="La Sagrada Familia"></a>

<!-- more -->

I spent the first few days doing not much, walking around the city near La
Rambla and enjoying the warmth, and trying to rest up.

Once I was feeling a bit better I took a free walking tour of Barcelona that
went around a number of sites in the heart of Barcelona and give background and
history of the city. The tour really made me realise how little I know about
even recent Spanish history. I did not know that they had a dictatorship right
up until 1975, which was apparently allowed by the rest of Europe because the
dictator hadn't supported Hitler in WWII.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807882714/in/set-72157643866689355" title="First glimpse of Caga Tio, the shitting log by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2840/13807882714_d5216a705b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="First glimpse of Caga Tio"></a>

I also learnt about some rather unique Catalan Christmas traditions. The
first being Caga Tio (Literal translation: Uncle Shit), a happy looking log with
a face and a blanket. Each day leading up to Christmas the kids beat Caga Tio
with sticks "to help with digestion". Then on Christmas day, if the kids have
beaten him enough to help him with his digestion problems, they peer under his
blanket and find that he's pooped out a load of candy. An important life lesson
to teach your kids!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810536113/in/set-72157643866689355" title="So many caganers by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7126/13810536113_62c182214f_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="So many caganers"></a>

The other strange Catalan Christmas tradition is the caganer. The caganer is a
little man, squatted over with his arse hanging out of his pants, and on the
ground behind him is a freshly made turd. He's apparently hidden somewhere in
every good Catalan persons nativity scene and the kids love to search for him.
There was stall after stall selling these caganers, which you can get with in
the likeness of all kinds of celebrities, the most distasteful being Nelson
Mandela the same week he died. The guide said the caganer was something to do
with representing giving back to the earth, but it just seems like they're
obsessed with poop to me.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807913783/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Nathalie, Ibrahim and me by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7309/13807913783_34a18f23dc_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Nathalie, Ibrahim and me"></a>

One evening I arranged to meet up with one of my old Envato workmates Ibrahim,
and his beautiful wife Nathalie, to go and eat at a really nice tapas place they
had told me about.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807896004/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Tapas by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7013/13807896004_9b77c7e756_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Awsome tapas"></a>

The place did not disappoint, everything we tried was delicious from the Spanish
ham and croquettes to the not-so-traditional perfectly cooked little steak
bites, with delightful sangria to wash it down. I think my stand-out favourite
was the sandwiches with [sobrasada](/images/sobrasada_de_bellota.jpg)
(spreadable chorizo) and melted cheese. Spreadable meat seems like it should be
wrong, but it tasted fantastic. I'm told that when
[sturicho](/images/sturicho.jpg) was visiting he loved the stuff too; Ibby said
he probably would have brushed his teeth with the stuff if he could have :P

It was great to see those two again, they're both such kind hospitable people.
It's always a pleasure spending time with them and I look forward to (hopefully)
being able to converse in Spanish with them next time I see them.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807979643/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Palau Güell's beautiful entrance by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7071/13807979643_2e3c6aae51_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Palau Güell's beautiful entrance"></a>

I managed to get along to see Güell palace, a building that was once the home of
the Güell family, which was closed for renovations the last time I was in
Barcelona.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808355844/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Parabolic arches by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7302/13808355844_14212b2d48_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Parabolic arches"></a>

It's another very beautiful building designed by Gaudí, designed with lots of
smooth curves and vibrant colour. Gaudí used a lot of parabolic arches and other
unique geometry, in his designs which give both strength as well as visually
interesting features.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808807974/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Wrought iron work by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3801/13808807974_c1b85cb2b3_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Wrought iron work"></a>

It featured a lot of quite complex wrought iron work which must have been made
by very skilled craftsmen. It was all so perfect and regular, it's hard to
believe it wasn't done by a machine.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808579334/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Palau Güell chimneys by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3819/13808579334_34846ded2c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Palau Güell chimneys"></a>

Up on the roof there were heaps of colourful chimneys, no two the same. Many
were covered in broken bits of tile, a style heavily used by Gaudí in quite a
few of his works, but there were a few that were just red bricks laid in
interesting formations.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808511193/in/set-72157643866689355" title="The bullring shopping center by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3830/13808511193_4e985a5e60_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The bullring shopping center"></a>

I went to Plaza de España to go up to the roof of Arenas de Barcelona, an old
bullring that has since been converted into a shopping centre. There's a lift
out the front that you have to pay a few Euro to get up to the viewing platform
on the roof, or you can go into the shopping centre and use the escalators and
get up there for free.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808520673/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Looking out from the rooftop, straight at a hotel pool by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3684/13808520673_8e1f63c67c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Looking out from the rooftop, straight at a hotel pool"></a>

From the roof you get a nice view of the city is most directions. You also get a
view looking straight at this hotel's swimming pool. I imagine it was built
before the viewing platform was there, but I can't imaging people rushing to use
the pool now with hoards of people at Arenas looking straight out at you.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808555395/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Montjuïc Castle by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5504/13808555395_c2fe7003c2_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Montjuïc Castle"></a>

From there I got a bus to Montjuïc Castle and have a look around. I remember
visiting here the last time I was in town, and the building seemed mostly how I
remembered it, although I'm pretty sure it wasn't free last time and now it is
:D

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808612155/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Barcelona by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7004/13808612155_755dbcd073_c.jpg" width="800" height="500" alt="Barcelona"></a>

It's up on top of a hill, so it's another great place to get a view of Barcelona.

In the evening I went to see a light/water/sound show dubbed "The Magic
Fountain". When I arrived there was an absolutely massive crowd and the show
seemed to be delayed. Nobody seemed to have much of an idea what was going on so
I ducked off for a quick drink, then from where I was having my drink I saw a
massive fireworks show going off from the direction of the fountain. It wouldn't
have looked out of place on the TV amongst a wrap-up of the years NYE fireworks,
it was pretty epic. I found out later that this was for a couples wedding...
rich people!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808981964/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Magic fountain by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2909/13808981964_21e85ea3b0_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Magic fountain"></a>

Anyway, I went back to the fountain and found that now that the fireworks were
over they were back to a more normal schedule for the fountain, so I took a seat
and watched the nicely synchronised display. Some of the water effects were
really foamy and fluffy, and the lights coming through made it look like some
sort of magic smoke. Really cool to see.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810906184/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell Logo by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5321/13810906184_e7aab18a47_c.jpg" width="800" height="504" alt="Park Güell Logo"></a>

I tried to go to Sagrada Familia, but there was yet another public holiday so
the queue went right around the block. I wasn't really keen on waiting for
hours to get in and have the place be cramped full of people so I went to Park
Güell instead.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809086694/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell main stairway by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7090/13809086694_ec3de27f4a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Park Güell main stairway"></a>

Sadly the public holiday meant even though I didn't have to wait long to get in,
the park was packed with people like a circus and not anything like the
peaceful, pretty park I remembered.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808713993/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Spiral pillars by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7230/13808713993_668bf0eec4_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Spiral pillars"></a>

It was really challenging to get a nice photo of any of the signature parts of
the park without a dozen people also in the shot posing for their next Facebook
avatar. I did manage to get a few shots that mislead you into thinking it wasn't
like that at all, but that's only because I'm both stubborn and patient and will
wait around for 10 minutes waiting for a gap.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809144934/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell dragon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2866/13809144934_9a03d34057_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Park Güell dragon"></a>

The most well known part of the park, the dragon, was a nightmare. There was
an endless line of people waiting to rush in for their photo, me included.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809190964/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7395/13809190964_2a5f3c5741_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Park Güell"></a>

I ended up leaving feeling pretty sick (the cold was still hanging around),
frustrated and generally tired of crowds. I probably should have just rested on
the public holidays and gone the next day.

I saw that a couch surfing meeting up happening at a little flamenco concert at
a bar on the other side of town, so I headed over to check it out. I met a bunch
of lovely South Americans there, it was nice to hear some Spanish that I knew
was actually Spanish, all the Catalan that's spoken in Barcelona is really
off-putting for a Spanish learner.

The flamenco show had beautifully played guitar and singing and some _very_
passionate dancing. I had a "front row" seat, which meant the woman dancing was
often facing right towards me, 2ft away, which did make me a bit uncomfortable.

One of the couch surfers was a nice girl from Chile, Natalia, who insists that I
get in touch with her where I go to Chile or Uruguay, so she can put me in touch
with friends to stay with there. Win!

went to casa batillo, another home designed by Gaudí. more lovely curves,
spirals and gradients of colours. the building looks like a dragon along the
rooftop from the outside. beautiful furniture, would have been an amazing place
to live.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809497833/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Casa Batlló Facade by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3806/13809497833_e3fbede624_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Casa Batlló Facade"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809039093/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Whirlpool ceiling by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7357/13809039093_b7955d4fc3_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Whirlpool ceiling"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809204735/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Casa Batlló by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2832/13809204735_0f45c216f5_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Casa Batlló"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809366973/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Casa Batlló rooftop by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7117/13809366973_f627feefd8_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Casa Batlló rooftop"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809385475/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Dragon scale tiles by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7401/13809385475_22543ea05a_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Dragon scale tiles"></a>

went back to sagrada la familia, much shorter lines this day. has been made a
basiica by the pope in 2010. sadly lots of scaffolding covering my favourite
facade. ETA is 2030 so I may actually see it finished in my lifetime. realised
from a model they have of the completed design, that the 5-6 tallest towers
arent not built yet, so the "jesus" tower is going to be 2x as tall when it's
done. compltetely epic.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809927463/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Spiral! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7249/13809927463_026c86c61a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Spiral!"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810099654/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Inside a tower through the doorway arch by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2895/13810099654_fd5569be9d_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Inside a tower through the doorway arch"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810295075/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Model of the completed Sagrada Familia by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7096/13810295075_f30b748621_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Model of the completed Sagrada Familia"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810328804/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Rainbow pillars by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2919/13810328804_7ac1795f11_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Rainbow pillars"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810315284/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Stunning lighting in the afternoon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7340/13810315284_70ee143cc7_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Stunning lighting in the afternoon"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810039463/in/set-72157643866689355" title="The passion facade by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3750/13810039463_727a96e8f0_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="The passion facade"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810183203/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Epic lighting by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7222/13810183203_d87235eb86_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Epic lighting"></a>

love all the clean completixy of all the shapes involved, all coming back to
simple math concepts. interesting museum underneath that I don't recall from
last time.

Started to wonder what my photos from last time I visited looked like, and if I
had enough foresight to take photos of both the completed and under construction
areas to compare. this time I took lots of photos which while just construction
now, will be great to look back on in 20 years, seeing this massive structure
still heavily in progress

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810745704/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Crazy rainbow building by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3706/13810745704_f46a278fb5_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Crazy rainbow building"></a>
