---
layout: post
title: "Berlin"
date: 2014-03-03 14:31
tags: Berlin, Germany
description:
priority: 0.5
---

Flying to Berlin was my first flight with Ryanair on this trip, and it was
pretty much trouble free. It did seem absurd that they still mess about with
unassigned seating, which makes the boarding process so much slower and
inefficient than on normal airlines, and it means they play silly games not
announcing which gate you need to be at until 15 minutes before it closes so you
have the fun of running from one end of the airport to the other to catch your
flight. I heard they're finally phasing it out; that cant happen soon enough
IMO.

<!-- more -->

Once I'd gotten into Berlin and checked into my hostel I got in contact with my
friend Erin, an American who I met in South Africa who lives in Berlin on a
semi-regular basis. We arranged to meet up for dinner and she offered to give me
an introductory tour of the city. It was pretty lucky timing as Erin was leaving
Berlin for a month just a few days after I arrived.

We  walked all around the city, past the museum island, Potsdamer Platz,
Brandenburger Tor, The Jewish Memorial, and loads of other sites around the
city. It was quite the whirlwind introduction to the city, we even visited a
small Christmas market and had some gluhwein! Delicious spiced wine served hot,
perfect for the cold nights leading up to Christmas. It was lovely to see Erin
again and it felt like a nice way to get to know the city being shown around by
someone who obviously loves the place.

I feel a bit bad about having zero photos with Erin or the places we went to go
with this part of the post, but at times while travelling I've been hit by
"photo sorting fatigue", which leaves me in a state where I think to myself "if
I don't take any photos I wont have to sort any more!", which leads to gaps like
we have here.

We met up again the next day to go and visit Tempelhof Park, an old airfield
that has been turned into a public park, but still has all the runways and stuff
there. It's kind of surreal to be wandering around one what quite obviously was
a fairly big airfield, with people jogging past or cycling on bikes.  These days
there's a community garden there and areas dedicated for having BBQs and stuff.
It seems like it would be a lovely place to spent time at in the summertime, and
would make a great venue for a music festival.

We went out that night for pizza with Erin's housemates, Nicole and Nicole, as a
chance to meet each other and see how we got along, and to see about the
possibility of me taking Erin's room while she was away. The two Nicoles were
both lovely and it seemed like it would be cool to live in a typical German
apartment for at least some of my stay in Berlin. They were happy to have me
take the room, so I got to move in a few days after Erin left.

In my last few days staying in the hostel I met a Dutch guy named Harmen who was
a bit of a history buff and seemed like a nice fellow, so we decided to explore
some of the city together. We went to the Holocaust Museum, which was very
interesting but there was just too much information there to process it all, so
by 3/4 of the way through I was skipping reading 90% of the text and was pretty
well museum-fatigued.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13525055773/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7312/13525055773_8cd2455173_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe"></a>

To combat that we went into a nearby bar for a rest and a few beers. We got talking
with the bartender, a girl from Birmingham named Carley, who gave us some good
tips for some neighbourhoods to go exploring later in the evening.

After we felt able to tackle another museum we headed to the Topography of
Terror museum, a museum built right next to the foundations of the headquarters
of the Secret State Police, the SS and the Reich Security Main Office of the
Third Reich.  Its also coincidentally right next to a long segment of the Berlin
wall that was still in place, complete with some large holes smashed in the
concrete.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13525750244/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Hole smashed in a preserved part of the Berlin Wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3785/13525750244_66e9ee1851_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Hole smashed in a preserved part of the Berlin Wall"></a>

It was great having Harmen there to fill in the massive gaps in my knowledge
about German history. I know we covered the World Wars in high school, but I
don't think we ever even touched on the cold war (I guess because Australia
played no part in it, and our history classes seemed to have been very biased
towards things that Australia took part in, rather than important events that
shaped the world as it is today.

I never enjoyed history at school, but I now think that was largely because of
the incredibly narrow focus that my small rural high school had in its classes.
The stuff I've learned about while travelling about the history in a bunch of
other countries has been fascinating. Far more interesting than hearing about
Australia being slaughtered at Gallipoli for the hundredth time.

The Topography of Terror museum was another really good museum, covering the
various groups involved in carrying out the atrocities of WWII. It focused a lot
more on the "who" and what they did; some very interesting perspectives there,
but again too much information to take it all in in only one visit.

Harmen and I then went to Kottbusser Tor, the suburb recommended to us by Carley
earlier in the day, and found that although it seemed like an interesting suburb
with a lot of cool street art, there seemed to be nothing but Turkish
Restaurants around. If you've read my post about Turkey, you'll know I adore
Turkish food, but being newly in Germany we were really wanting to eat some
German food and it honestly felt a bit disheartening that a single culture had
so completely squeezed out all others in the food scene in this part of the
city. I'm would think there's a saturation point for number of kebab shops you
really need on any one street, and I'm pretty sure the streets of Kottbusser tor
crossed that point long ago.

We ended up caving in and getting Turkish food since there seemed like there was
no other option, and it was quite frankly disappointing. Overpriced and dry,
leaving me even more confused how such an average restaurant can survive in the
face of so much competition?

After dinner we went to a tapas bar for a while to soak in the bohemian/hipster
vibe they had going on there, before heading over the bridge near Warschauer
Strasse station into a district of old warehouses that had been converted into
bars, skate parks, climbing centres and all kinds stuff, all decorated outside
with loads and loads of awesome graffiti.

We found a nice little bar in what seemed to be a bit of a multi-purpose
building. At various times I saw through different doors and I'm sure I saw 2-3
different bars, a room that looked to be some sort of music recording studio,
and what I think might have been a juggling studio up stairs. Quite an eclectic
mix.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13525867974/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Hipster folk music by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7017/13525867974_09174cf869_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Hipster folk music"></a>

They had some live music happening in the bar, initially a single guy
alternating between playing a pan flute and a ukulele, then more musicians
arrived with other strange instruments. One woman had a mouth harp, another guy
had something that looked like the love-child of a sitar and an accordion with a
little crank at one end, and the original guy switched over to playing something
that appeared to be a bag pipe, but with inoffensive tuning. For serious, a bag
pipe without the piercing pitch. They two of them started doing some folk
dancing. It was quite the cool little show. Brunswick hipsters, eat your heart
out.


Another day I went an walked along Karl-Marx Allee, a huge boulevard built by
the GDR/DDR, I guess to show off how great communism is. It is lined with lots
of massive buildings built during the early years of the Cold War.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13526156075/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Big East Berlin buildings on Karl-Marx Allee by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3755/13526156075_e9e5c61fe9_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Big East Berlin buildings on Karl-Marx Allee"></a>

There are some interesting communist "ads" on top of a few buildings,
interesting because being communist meant there wasn't really a need for any
advertising, there was no competition between companies, but there were ads for
stuff in West Berlin and didn't want to be outdone by them.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13525982215/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Communist era advertising by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7334/13525982215_8b0917a31b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Communist era advertising"></a>

There was also a small model of Sputnik on top of a cafe.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13526227694/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Cafe with Sputnik on top of it by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3701/13526227694_48e9c1fe96_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Cafe with Sputnik on top of it"></a>

But the highlight for me, completely unrelated to it's socialist past, was the
epic video game museum. It contained pretty much every console imaginable and
loads of classic games, and some classic arcade machines too. The place brought
out a huge amount of nostalgia in me, so many great memories.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13538254253/in/set-72157643245435323" title="So much video game history by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3771/13538254253_f0fd2c472a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="So much video game history"></a>

Some pieces of special note included the original Sega Master System, my first
every console,

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13527934633/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Sega Master System by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2859/13527934633_574d3fd060_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Sega Master System. NFI why it says Mark III, this was the one before the SMSII in Australia"></a>

A virtual reality machine I have memories of paying way to much to have a turn
of at a video game arcade somewhere in Queensland when I was a kid,

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13528085255/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The first VR machine I ever saw and used back when I was a kid by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3756/13528085255_3da8f04e72_c.jpg" width="645" height="800" alt="The first VR machine I ever saw and used back when I was a kid"></a>

An Apple II, signed by the brains behind it, Steve Wozniak,

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13528026095/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Apple II, signed by Woz by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7090/13528026095_1e823e32aa_c.jpg" width="800" height="605" alt="Apple II, signed by Woz"></a>

And this very unique arcade machine called the PainStation, which was a multi
player game that burnt, electrocuted and whipped the players while they played a
game, whoever flinched away first lost.
[Seriously](http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13536673074/in/set-72157643245435323).
It wasn't switched on so I can't say how bad the pain really was.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13536495093/in/set-72157643245435323" title="PainStation by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7324/13536495093_06657420b0_c.jpg" width="598" height="800" alt="PainStation"></a>

I did a huge amount of exploration around Berlin appreciating the street art,
probably at least 4-5 days whole days worth in total if you added it all up. I
did a few "self guided" walking tours (as in I had an itinerary or stuff to look
for found somewhere online), A ton of randomly wandering after spotting a cool
piece by chance, and a "Real Berlin" free walking tour that seemed to be quite
heavily street art focused.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13567379395/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Rainbow drips by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7273/13567379395_6fc9b174a3_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Rainbow drips"></a>

On one of my many aimless explorations I stumbled upon some buskers playing in
the street who were drawing quite a crowd.  A band called The Trouble Notes. One
guy planing an electric violin, one guy finger picking the heck out of a guitar
while also using it as a percussion instrument, and another dude sitting on a
unique drum that was just kind of a square box. They had a very beautiful sound
and were so damn good I stopped and listened to them for probably an hour.  I
even bought a CD to support them, even though I have nothing to play it in! And
I got a flyer for a show later in the month in a very hidden away warehouse.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13553720455/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The Trouble Notes are awesome! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2818/13553720455_f90767f22c_c.jpg" width="679" height="800" alt="The Trouble Notes are awesome!"></a>

I moved in with the Nicoles on the day of a "crafternoon" that was still in
progress when I arrived. I hung out and tried to make an origami animal that had
been stumping everyone all afternoon (damned if I can remember what the animal
was now), but we struggled with it for a very long time before finding out there
were instruction in the front explaining all the different arrows.  With this
Nicole A was able to successfully make the animal! (I thought only men didn't
read instructions, but now I know better :P)

exploring grafiti around warschauer, east side gallery.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13562823055/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Fancy car and a colourful wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5457/13562823055_133c3262f8_c.jpg" width="800" height="357" alt="Fancy car and a colourful wall"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13563950605/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Trabants by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2816/13563950605_04431b441e_c.jpg" width="800" height="752" alt="Trabants"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13564232873/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Berlin by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3724/13564232873_e9b584efaf_c.jpg" width="800" height="447" alt="Berlin"></a>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13564854475/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Sunday drinks while painting the wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3679/13564854475_694238308f_c.jpg" width="800" height="290" alt="Sunday drinks while painting the wall"></a>

real berlin walking tour, strong focus on grafiti and street art. goot to have
specific artists pointedout and then start recognising their work around the
city. learned some more about the berlin wall. interesting tidbit about west
belin being the only part of west germany that didn't have conscription, so all
the liberals migrated there, which may explain the very liberal culture that
exists there today. learned how developers are now developing along the lovely
green strip behind the long strip of wall that makes up the east side gallery,
what a fuck up. 
I think our guide must have been well connected in with
the street art community based on how much he seemed to know about individual
artists, techniques, etc. I almost suspect I might be one of the artists,
although he denied it when I asked.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13565480803/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Garbage Elephant by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7131/13565480803_2d4637d7f0_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Garbage Elephant"></a>


deutch technology museum. heavy focus on planes and trains, but also some
interesting stuff about medicine, old bikes, photography, old mechanical
computers and television. 

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13565480803/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Garbage Elephant by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7131/13565480803_2d4637d7f0_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Garbage Elephant"></a>

rant about audioguides. only covered 25 things in the whole musuem, but then
waffeled on for like 10 minutes about each one. 

went and saw the trouble notes do a live show with the two nicoles and a friend
of theirs. venue an old building hidden down a dark alley, surrounded by
building that felt like they were laregly abandoned. very good show, even if the
support was super emo and the venue was super smokey. feels like I got in a time
machine to be back in a place where you can smoke in public venues.

pergamont museum, huge babalonian gate, ancient temple from turkey. lack of any
information in english and I didn't get an audio guide because of my last
expeience with one.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570336943/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Ishtar Gate by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7338/13570336943_508a1c623f_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Ishtar Gate"></a>

pergamont gate on display is actually the smaller, rear-side of the gate. the
front must have been epic.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570513833/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Pergamon Altar by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7315/13570513833_b093193675_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Pergamon Altar"></a>

the new musuem was great, I thought the building itself was super interesting,
each room styled differently and uniquely. lots of it reconstructee after the
war. felt too old to be calling the new museum.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570806863/in/set-72157643245435323" title="More plundered loot by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2816/13570806863_91ff2f0594_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="More plundered loot"></a>

oddly, the inside of the old museum I found very dull and streile.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570964433/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The old museum by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3675/13570964433_e1959ec409_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The old museum"></a>

richstark (the german parliment), track work meant that I was pretty late to my
appointment. I'd left home cutting things fine, but didn't know that there was
trackwork and no trains running on a line I needed to use meant I ended up going
to another station near by and had to run to get there, all the while being
mobbed by deaf street collectors (who I suspect are just gypsys who have worked
out a way to not need to speak any particular language to make you feel like you
need to give them money, but I'm cynical).

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13571856715/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Reichstag Building by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3747/13571856715_cd8f850ee4_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Reichstag Building"></a>

great view of the city, automatic audioguide as you walk up the dome.
checkpoint charlie museum. way better than I expected. lots of intresting
stories about escapes hidden in cars, welding machines, a pair of suitcases side
by side, balloons, gliders. the musuem was actually huge, but i think the layout
means most people miss half of it, I had the place to myself in that section.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574369354/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Entering the American sector by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3707/13574369354_a88abda031_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Entering the American sector"></a>

sachenhausen concentration camp, out at oranienburg. 2 km walk from the station
in the literally freezing cold mist.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574136123/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Sachsenhausen concentration camp by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5154/13574136123_5128f1e198_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Sachsenhausen concentration camp"></a>

got the audio guide, found it to be another miss. very, very long winded, often
going way off topic. also sort of out of date, as far as a historic sitecan be
at least. mentions "hope to finish building by 2007", leaving me wondering if
they finished or not. quite the cliff hanger

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574950624/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Guard tower by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2816/13574950624_3b90ef9ba6_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Guard tower"></a>


camp used by the russian 45-50, lots of info but not very much good info to give
the whole picture durion that time. lots of personal account but none of them
tie together and I didn't get much of an idea what it was like.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574588603/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The part used by Russia after WWII by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2865/13574588603_d6129b1b7b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The part used by Russia after WWII"></a>

founations of the gas chambers and the neck shot room were stil there but the
building were long gone.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574715373/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Ovens foundations by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3818/13574715373_5fa26d9d74_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ovens foundations"></a>

infirmary had mention of there being a brothel on site, females prisoners forced
to work there, soldiers and selected prisoners used it as a reward

frozen puddles everywhere

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574729685/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Frozen puddle by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3824/13574729685_1de76ae3d8_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Frozen puddle"></a>

misty rain as the sun set was freezing cold, but appropriate for the venue.
really sunk in how hard it would have been being a prisoner given only summer
clothes and made to stand out in the yard for 24 hours, not moving, on arrival

gluhwine seller on the exit was a live saver!

moved out of the nicoles place as they had a friend coming to stay, sad to be
leaving, there awesome people. so friendly and welcoming. little nicole is
bursting with an odd sort of positivity, so even at the end of a shitty day she
was still enthusiastic, but not in the "look on the bright side" way, more in
the "fuck that fuckface, and have a great day" way

moved to a hostel which was almost completely full of australians, aside from
the one staff member there.

erotic museum, sort of dull, oldest sex shop in the world, one floor about the
owner, 1 floor of drawings and what looked like kitch holiday souvineers

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574866713/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Beate Uhse Erotic Museum by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5278/13574866713_2ab2331733_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Beate Uhse Erotic Museum"></a>

burgermeister, deliciously good.

back to the nicoles place the next night for thanksgivukah. lovely to see them
again and meet some of their friends. even met a girl also from australia, also
born in wagga wagga, also moved away at a young age. what are the odds?

lots of delicious vegitarian food and super sweet deserts, pumpkin cheesecake?

met up with Harmen again

ddr musuem. great museum, although it needs a bigger space. incredibly packed
for a museum, and then lots of stuff hidden behinds doors which were awkward to
open without blocking someone elses view. one really neat aspect was the east
german apparetment recreation, complete with bugs you could listen to from
another room.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574951913/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Me in a Trabant by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7361/13574951913_4fec5217ce_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Me in a Trabant"></a>

went to brew baker, pumkin ale, ipa, super sweet dark beer, inside a really nice
looking little indoor market.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13575388144/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Cheers Harmen! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3745/13575388144_018a2b7751_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Cheers Harmen!"></a>

couch surfing with amber. nice girl, spacy. mikeller pop up bar

go otu for breakfast at a place called melbourne canteen, then head to spreepark
(other blog post [blogged about here](http://www.lucasthenomad.com/2013/12/05/spreepark-berlin)

go out for japanese and then go to open mic night

went to charlottenburg schloss, but it was monday so the building was closed.
explored the gardens, beautiful light frosting on the parts in the shade

amazing pork knuckle, random 20% discount, tipped it right back again

fleece for edinburgh

back to the generator hostel where it started exploring xmas market at alexander
platz. light a huge rural show, lights and rides. lots of delicious food and
gluhwein. regular stuff, with a shot of spirits or schapes, eierpunsch (yellow
and creamy like egg nog, super sweet, with whipped cream on the top). even
gluhbeir which was rich and sweet. ate some tasty shredded pork, and a bag of
donut hole things. felt sick from all the sweet stuff.

berlin wall memorial. bits of the multiple layers of wall, an old street cut off
by the wall. rebuilt secition with both complete walls, guard tower and lights.
viewing platform in the west letting you see into the east?

buildings along the border with doors on both sides. eventually bricked up the
west, evicted the people, demolished. old metro station were the trains went
under east berlin center that got bricked up and abandoned, but now in use

move christmas markets, pranzlaurberg, charlotenburg. much less fun-parky, and a
better range of food and stuff. lots of sweedish and finland stalls, clothes and
nicknacks. epic roast dinner, then a huge hungarian donut thing

off to the airport to fuly to barcelona
