---
date: 2014-07-31 21:39
layout: post
title: "Nicoya Peninsula, Costa Rica"
tags: Nicoya-Peninsula, Costa-Rica, Montezuma, Santa-Teresa, Surfing
travel_dates: 2014-02-11 - 2014-02-19
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14535655259/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Montezuma sunset by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3835/14535655259_8660ab6035_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Montezuma sunset"></a>

So after I was finished in Uvita I headed to the next place along the coast of
Costa Rica that seems to get rave reviews, Montezuma. Montezuma is described by
guidebooks and Lonely Planet tourists as some beautiful and undiscovered hippy
beach town, so I went there expecting maybe something like Byron Bay was 10-15
years ago.

<!-- more -->

I was sorely let down, and I feel all those people need a strong reality check.
The place is horribly overrun by tourists. It felt like the last real local had
left years ago and now there is nothing but pot smoking gringos, pretending
they're in some hippy paradise. Or maybe that is hippy paradise, and I'm just
jaded. Having grown up close to both Byron Bay (when it was far less developed
than it is today) and Nimbin (where at least there are pot smoking locals too),
I felt Montezuma brought nothing of interest to the table.

I had a huge amount of trouble finding a decent room. Most places I tried were
full up, with the remaining places either being empty and super creepy, or
without lockers. Not cool at all with the reputation this place has specifically
for thieves breaking into hostel rooms. Eventually I found a place with room for
me but it was a complete dive.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14535853397/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Montezuma by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3870/14535853397_2cb0f86dc2_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Montezuma"></a>

I tried to switch hostels to one of the highly rated places the next day to see
if my opinion on the place would change, but they were full up again so I reserved a
bed for the following day after that.

I really tried to give the town a good chance, but even after moving hostels to
the fully booked one, no one was ever around. For a town that was full up in
terms of accommodation, it was strangely like a ghost town during the day. It
seemed like everyone staying in Montezuma disappeared off to snorkelling tours
or surfing lessons in other towns... Why exactly do people come here again?

It wasn't all shit though.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14719920754/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Cliff diving by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2920/14719920754_8811d76f8a_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Cliff diving"></a>

I decided to go see the waterfall, and that turned out to be really worthwhile.
The walk to the falls was pretty easy, a lot of rock hopping over the steam
leading away from the falls. The bottom fall was very beautiful, with lots of
people swimming in the pool at the bottom or sunning themselves on the
surrounding rocks. It looked like it would be very dangerous to jump off, but
that didn't stop some folk.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14535670980/in/set-72157645450071209" title="This was part of the path to the top by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2937/14535670980_401cf4fdec_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="This was part of the path to the top"></a>

I climbed up to the top of the second fall via the alternate path. There were
some extremely steep parts where you only really had a rope to hold on to to
climb up and down, almost like abseiling. The path went up quite a bit higher
than the falls, around the side and then came back down to the top of the falls.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14719940384/in/set-72157645450071209" title="A local jumping down the second falls by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3841/14719940384_922db43cea_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="A local jumping down the second falls"></a>

There were lots of people up there, some Ticos were jumping down the second
waterfall into the pool below it. I'm told it's 15M, and it looks like a fairly
safe jump straight down. I heard some long screams before they finally hit the
water. However, being a solo traveller with no one there to look out for me I wasn't
willing to jump myself.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14719914944/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Montezuma waterfall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3905/14719914944_1052cf80c1_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Montezuma waterfall"></a>

I climbed back down to the bottom falls, and went for a swim there. It was cool
that you could get right against the rocks, behind the water curtain and hear
the falls pounding down in front of you.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14719948464/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Mc Mary's by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3890/14719948464_cd40d3e8a7_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Mc Mary's"></a>

On my last night there, while wandering around the streets waiting to see the
fire show that happens on Thursday nights, I met a friendly American couple who
waiting for reggae night in one of the bars to start and spend the night talking
with them. It just so happened they were driving to Santa Teresa the next day
and so they offered me a lift there with them in their air conditioned 4WD.
Score! Sure beats the bus!

I found Santa Teresa to be a much nicer place than Montezuma. There's a long
surf beach going for kilometres in either direction, mostly with a sandy bottom
perfect for learning.

I walked the whole length of the beach on the day I arrived to get an idea where
places were, all the way down to Playa Carmen; a long enough walk that my legs
were sore afterwards.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14699346436/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Boards in the surf shop by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3910/14699346436_f7fe1aa431_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Boards in the surf shop"></a>

I took a surf lesson with Al Chilli Surf Shop, with a group consisting of two
German girls and a Korean girl. We were shown how to jump up, practiced on the
sand a bunch of times and then went out into the surf with the instructor
holding the board and telling us to paddle and jump up as the waves came
through.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14742224093/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Francisco and me by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3864/14742224093_c67dbbdf08_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Francisco and me"></a>

I managed to get up and ride the wave all the way in a few times, and towards
the end managed a few times completely unassisted; I was pretty happy with that!

I happened to be in Santa Teresa at the time of a full moon, and one of the
beach bars was having a big full moon party which I went along to with some
people from the hostel. It was a pretty big night with loads of people. I got to
practice some Spanish on some locals and didn't get home until the sun was up.

I felt like crap the next day, awake by 9am because of the heat, but I went out
surfing anyway because I had 24 hours of free board rental with my lesson. I was
really struggling to paddle hard enough because I was so tired, but still got up
a few times.

I had not been paying enough attention and the current took me about a kilometre
down along the beach. When I came back in I had no idea where. It took me ages
to figure out which direction I needed to walk to get back, barefoot on the hot
road, then back down to the beach to get my flip-flops.

I went out again the next afternoon with a bit more energy and seemed to be
getting up a bit more easily, but most of the waves were just dumping over in
one go, so you couldn't properly catch them.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14722051542/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Kaya by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2926/14722051542_4ff893ee25_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Kaya"></a>

I ran into Kaya, one of the German girls from the lesson, and her boyfriend
Francisco and hung out with them for the afternoon and organised to meet up
early the next day for a surf. I also went back to the shop and swapped out my
giant 2.8 metre board for an 2.6 metre one, to see how I went with a shorter one
the next day.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14535901417/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Francisco, Kaya and me having breakfast by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3866/14535901417_5b2d7f0e6b_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Francisco, Kaya and me having breakfast"></a>

The next morning we were in the surf at 6am and the waves were pretty good for
about half an hour, but then the surf went flat so we went and had breakfast
together, before going our separate ways for the day, with me having a good nap.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14742224093/in/set-72157645450071209" title="Francisco and me by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3864/14742224093_c67dbbdf08_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Francisco and me"></a>

I went back down to the beach at 3pm for another surf and the waves were much
better. I actually managed to catch a couple before they had fully broken, a
sensation that feels much faster and a whole lot more fun. I ran into Kaya and
Francisco again and it turned out they were heading up the peninsula in their
car the next day, the same direction as me, and offered me a lift to Liberia.
Score!

The drive up the peninsula had roads of quite varying quality. From Santa Teresa
to the close ferry port was pretty OK. From there to the far ferry port was
crazy bumpy and torn up so we crawled along very slowly for that part, but once
we were past there the roads were pretty great so we made good time.

Kaya and Francisco kindly dropped me off at a nice little hotel in Liberia,
where I spent my last night in Costa Rica before getting the bus to the
Nicaraguan border early in the morning.

