---
layout: post
title: "Berlin, Part 2"
date: 2014-04-15 19:39
tags: Berlin, Germany
published: true
description:
priority: 0.5
travel_dates: 
---

I did a huge amount of exploration around Berlin appreciating the street art,
probably at least 4-5 days whole days worth in total if you added it all up. I
did a few "self guided" walking tours (as in I had an itinerary or stuff to look
for that I found somewhere online), A ton of randomly wandering after spotting a
cool piece by chance, and a "Real Berlin" free walking tour that turned out to
be quite heavily street art focused.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13567379395/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Rainbow drips by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7273/13567379395_6fc9b174a3_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Rainbow paint drips"></a>

<!-- more -->

On one of my many aimless explorations I stumbled upon some buskers playing in
the street who were drawing quite a crowd.  A band called [The Trouble
Notes](http://www.thetroublenotes.com/). One guy planing an electric violin, one
guy finger picking the heck out of a guitar while also using it as a percussion
instrument, and another dude sitting on a unique drum that was just kind of a
square box. They had a very beautiful sound and were so damn good I stopped and
listened to them for probably an hour.  I even bought a CD to support them, even
though I have nothing to play it in. I also got a flyer for a show later in the
month in a very obscure warehouse venue.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13553720455/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The Trouble Notes are awesome! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2818/13553720455_f90767f22c_c.jpg" width="679" height="800" alt="The Trouble Notes are awesome!"></a>

I moved in to the Nicoles' place on the day of a "crafternoon" that was still in
progress when I arrived. I hung out and tried to make an origami animal that had
been stumping everyone all afternoon (damned if I can remember what the animal
was now, a whale maybe?), but we struggled with it for a very long time before
discovering there were instruction in the front of the book explaining the
meaning of all the different fold-arrows.  With this Nicole A was finally able
to successfully make the animal! I thought only men didn't read instructions,
but now I know better :P

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13562823055/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Fancy car and a colourful wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5457/13562823055_133c3262f8_c.jpg" width="800" height="357" alt="Gangster car and a colourful mural"></a>

I spent an entire day exploring the street art around Warschauer Straße Station,
in and amongst the converted warehouse along Revaler Straße. This area oozes
creativity, with nearly every surface being covered in colourful murals and most
of the people around there looked like the sorts of folk my dad would look at
disapprovingly as dirty hippies. My kind of people! :)

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13564232873/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Berlin by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3724/13564232873_e9b584efaf_c.jpg" width="800" height="447" alt="Berlin mural on the East Side Gallery"></a>

I walked along the nearby East Side Gallery, a 1.3km long section of the Berlin
Wall that is now used as an open air art gallery. There over 100 painting, all
of them enormous. There was also a whole row of Trabants, the car of East Germany,
parked along the side the wall.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13563950605/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Trabants by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2816/13563950605_04431b441e_c.jpg" width="800" height="752" alt="Trabants along side the wall"></a>

I walked the whole length of the wall and then along some of the backside as
well and was lucky enough to come upon a bunch of artists spending their Sunday
afternoon painting the back of the wall and having a few beers. Art in progress
:D

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13564854475/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Sunday drinks while painting the wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3679/13564854475_694238308f_c.jpg" width="800" height="290" alt="Sunday drinks while painting the wall"></a>

Another day I went on a "Real Berlin Walking Tour", as recommended by another
friend who lived in Berlin briefly and highly recommended it. The tour had a
strong focus on graffiti and street art, which I didn't know about beforehand
and meant we went to several places I'd already checked out. It was great to
have a knowledgeable guide there to point specific artists works and styles, and
then start recognising their stuff all around the city.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13565480803/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Garbage Elephant by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7131/13565480803_2d4637d7f0_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Garbage Elephant by a crew who make art from stuff they find on the street"></a>

It seemed like our guide must have been well connected in with the street art
community based on how much he seemed to know about individual artists,
techniques, etc. I almost suspect he may have actually been one of the artists,
although he denied it when I asked him directly.

On the tour I learned some more about the Berlin wall and the Cold War. One
interesting titbit I picked up was that West Berlin was the only part of West
Germany that didn't have conscription, which led to many of the liberals
migrating there, which could very well explain the very liberal culture that
exists there today.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13565231714/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Eyesore being built right between the wall and the river by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7038/13565231714_49c68617c3_c.jpg" width="800" height="391" alt="Eyesore being built right between the wall and the river"></a>

I also learned how property developers have been permitted to start developing
along the lovely green strip behind the long strip of wall that makes up the
East Side Gallery. What a complete fuck up! I thought that the one building that
was in progress was a horribly inconvenient eye sore, meaning you could no
longer walk along the full length of both sides of the wall. To find out they're
now planning on building along most of that strip, including a section currently
occupied by an African Youth support centre who are being evicted, is terrible.
Wikipedia even tells me they're going to knock down extensive segments of the
gallery.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13567274875/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Fuck off Media Spree by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2810/13567274875_d3de7017e6_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt='"Fuck off Media Spree", the developers fucking up the riverside'></a>

Another day I visited the Deutsches Technikmuseum, the German Museum of
Technology. I love science and technology museums as a rule, although this one
had such a heavy focus on trains and planes that you could be forgiven for
thinking it was just a transport museum.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13568945104/in/set-72157643245435323" title="This musuem had a crazy number of planes in it by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2807/13568945104_6685df757b_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="This musuem had so many planes they needed to mount this one vertically"></a>

I especially liked this jet engine that was opened up so I could poke my head
right inside and get an idea of what the insides of one of those things looks
like and how the "reverse thrust" thing planes do to stop actually works. I've
since tried to look out the window on a flight as we landed to try see this in
action but the wing gets in the way. :(

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13568499815/in/set-72157643245435323" title='Jet engine, the back is open in the "braking" position by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr'><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7408/13568499815_3175e0b7e5_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt='Jet engine, the back is open in the "braking" position'></a>

There were some other smaller sections about old bicycles, medicine,
photography, old mechanical computers and televisions.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13567596055/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Wooden bike by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7077/13567596055_f5671ee900_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Wooden bike, totally hipster"></a>

Some of the old televisions had Cathode Ray tubes so long that they would
orient them with the screen facing the ceiling, and then use a 45º mirror to
flip the image so a sitting viewer could watch it. To think today there are
2+ metre televisions that are only a few cm thick... The progress of technology
is awesome!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13567824574/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Antique televisions. They're vertical with a mirror because the cathode ray tube was so long. by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2837/13567824574_fa301998a0_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Antique televisions. They're vertical with a mirror because the cathode ray tube was so long."></a>

There was also a historical brewery, complete with shiny copper mash & lauter tun
and boiler.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13568269805/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Historic brewhaus by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7181/13568269805_54ecd3472a_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Historic brewhaus"></a>

One evening while I was still staying with the two Nicoles, I went and saw The
Trouble Notes do a live show, with the two of them and a friend of theirs. The
venue was an old building hidden down a very dark alley, surrounded by building
that felt like they were largely abandoned. It felt like the kind of place you
went down to get stabbed, but it turned out fine for us. The Trouble Notes put on
very good show, even if the support act was a bit too emo and the venue was
super smoky.  It really feels like I got in a time machine and went back 20
years to be back in a place where you can smoke in public venues.

I spent a couple of days exploring the various museums on the Museum Island.
First up was the Pergamon museum, which has in it's collection a giant
Babylonian gate, and an ancient temple plundered from turkey.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570513833/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Pergamon Altar by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7315/13570513833_b093193675_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Pergamon Altar"></a>

I read up and learnt that the Babylonian gate on display is actually the
smaller, rear-side of the entrance way. The front must have been absolutely
epic!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570336943/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Ishtar Gate by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7338/13570336943_508a1c623f_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Ishtar Gate"></a>

The New Museum was great, I found the building itself to be very interesting,
with each room styled differently and quite uniquely. Much of it has been
reconstructed since the war. It's funny, the place felt way too old to be
calling it "the new museum".

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570806863/in/set-72157643245435323" title="More plundered loot by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2816/13570806863_91ff2f0594_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="More plundered loot in the New Museum"></a>

I also went to the Old Museum which looks really majestic from the outside, but
I felt the inside of the building lacked any real character and was rather dull
and sterile.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13570964433/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The old museum by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3675/13570964433_e1959ec409_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The old museum"></a>

One morning I booked in to visit the Reichstag Building (the German Parliament),
a building with an impressive glass dome on top of it, which you can go up for a
nice view. It's free but you have to book online in advance.

Surprise track work meant that I was pretty late, I'd left home cutting things
pretty fine according to Google maps estimations, but then there were no trains
running on the line I needed to change to, so I had to go to another station on
a different line, then practically run to try and get there near the time I was
scheduled to, all the while being mobbed by supposedly deaf street collectors.

The collectors hand you a card with a little statement in a bunch of languages
asking you to sign their clipboard (petition? I cant remember), then if you
don't read that clipboard you suddenly find you've signed up to make a donation.
Call me a cynic, but those deaf collectors look just like the gypsies in every
other city in Europe.  I suspect they've just come up with a new way of
extracting money from people without having to know a word of any language in
particular.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13571856715/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Reichstag Building by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3747/13571856715_cd8f850ee4_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Reichstag Building"></a>

Anyway, the Reichstag was a very impressive building, the inside of the dome
contains a system of mirrors which collect and reflect light down into the
parliament, lessening the need for artificial lighting. Really clever stuff.

There was a ramp spiralling up around the dome, with an audio guide that is
automatically activated as you walk around, giving you a nice (but hard to
photograph) view of the city in all directions.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13569107935/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Checkpoint Charlie looks like a tourist trap on the street by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7038/13569107935_690ccf05dc_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Checkpoint Charlie looks like a tourist trap on the street"></a>

One place I had hesitations about visiting the was Checkpoint Charlie Museum,
because the street outside makes the whole area feel like an awful tourist trap.
Inside it turned out to be nothing of the sort and was way better than I
expected.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13782271403" title="Wall of passports by Lucas Parry, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7118/13782271403_70cfe1090f_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Wall of passports inside Checkpoint Charlie"></a>

It contained lots of interesting stories about the many successful and
unsuccessful attempts to escape from East Germany to flee to the west.  There
were stories about escapes hidden in the modified car engine bays, secret
compartments in large welding machines, one woman who hid in a pair of connected
suitcases side by side on the luggage rack of a train, hot air balloons,
gliders, even some attempts in homemade submarines in the Baltic sea. The museum
was actually quite large, but I think the layout means a lot of people miss half
of it. I pretty much had the place to myself in that section.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574369354/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Entering the American sector by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3707/13574369354_a88abda031_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt='The original "Entering the American sector" sign'></a>
