---
layout: post
title: "Istanbul, Turkey"
date: 2014-01-03 15:01
author: 
categories: 
description: 
published: true
priority: 0.5

tags: Turkey, Istanbul
travel_dates: 
---

After flying into Istanbul Attaturk airport we spent the morning hiding out at
the airport in the air conditioning and waiting for the time we'd agree to meet
at our apartment with our AirBNB host. We got a taxi from the airport and my
first impressions of Istanbul proper were that everything appeared so clean,
modern and organised. The highways were multi-lane, there was nobody wandering
out trying to sell things to passing traffic, traffic flowed very quickly and
efficiently, people drove on the correct side of the road and actually stayed in
their lanes for the most part. It's amazing how much your direct prior
experiences can colour your perceptions of a place, the Turkey we were seeing
was at odds to the reputation that the place generally has for it's drivers.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11436642894/in/set-72157638802576105" title="The beautiful view of the Bosphorus from our apartment by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5502/11436642894_59fd09327c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="The beautiful view of the Bosphorus from our apartment"></a>

The apartment we stayed in was located very close to Taksim Square, consisting
of the whole top floor of the building and a rooftop courtyard and a fantastic
view of the Bosporus. Having modern conveniences like a fridge, a washing
machine and air conditioning felt very luxurious after having just spent 5 weeks
camping in tents.

<!-- more -->

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438688723/in/set-72157638802576105" title="The main room by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3802/11438688723_b835a00146_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="The main room of our fancy apartment"></a>


As soon as we'd put our bags down we headed out in search of food and quickly
located our first kebabs of the trip. Very delicious and super cheap too. We
continued up to Taksim square and found that the top corner of the square
consisted of about 6-7 kebab shops all side by side, which we soon dubbed the
kebab district. We made pretty regular trips to the kebab district on a quest to
find out which one had the best kebabs but it was sort of inconclusive, they
were all delicious!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11436643135/in/set-72157638802576105" title="The kebab district, Taksim Square by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7324/11436643135_8075c6133a_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="The kebab district, Taksim Square"></a>

Sadly that first night I got the news of my grandmother's death. She was my last
remaining grandparent and it was going to be sad news to get whenever it came,
but being surrounded by friend was probably the best I could have hoped for
while being so far from home.

All of us headed over to the Egyptian bazaar the next morning to do some
exploring. The Egyptian bazaar is right next to the grand bazaar, but a bit
smaller and (apparently) a bit less tourist focused although looking back I'm
not remembering a lot of stuff there I could imagine the locals coming to buy.
Maybe the bulk tobacco and spices, but not the 100s of hookahs or the Kilos of
Turkish delight.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11436843495/in/set-72157638802576105" title="More spices by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2820/11436843495_0b229d3f5d_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Piles of spices"></a>

We all agreed the place felt fairly busy and bustling, but people seemed a lot
less forceful about getting your attention or dragging you into their shops than
we were used to so it felt quite a bit more relaxed than Africa. It's
interesting to read reviews of the bazaar on trip advisor where a lot of people
complain about how invasive the touts are and how they couldn't cope with it
all, and it really goes to show just how subjective all the reviews on there are
and how much each individuals past experiences factor in.

We went an wandered around the Grand Bazaar, which as the name implies is a
really huge market. The place had a strange air of familiarity to it and
eventually it clicked that Constantinople that Assassin's Creed Revelations is
set in, is the same city that eventually became Istanbul. I realised I'd already
visited the Topkapi palace virtually, and even assassinated a Czar there. I find
it thoroughly impressive that I can start to feel like I know my way around the
city, based on the map design of a video game set in the city hundred of years
earlier.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11437094434/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Colourful lamps by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7419/11437094434_39241c19c2_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Colourful lamps"></a>

We found the carpet sellers had interesting and quite well thought out tactics
for trying to get you into their shops. Instead of just outright saying "come to
my shop", they'd often just be wandering around near tourist areas and off some
help or show you around, tell you some historical information about the place;
just generally being friendly and helpful, and then after they'd developed a
feeling of being in-debt to them, then they'd very friendlily offer to take you
to their friend/brother/cousins shop and show you around.

This obviously still didn't work well on me (not having a home is nice like
that), but I have to admit I actually felt a bit bad for them compared to the
average touts, and could imagine the tactics would be quite successful on a lot
of people, in at least getting them into the shop.

One of the less commonly visited places we visited in Istanbul was the
Australian consulate. Not because somebody lost their passport, but to vote in
the Federal election. The consulate was on quite a high floor in the Ritz
Carlton hotel so the views were fantastic.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438326773/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Voting with a view by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7336/11438326773_eedbf2eff7_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Voting with a view"></a>

Amanda, Luke and myself visited the cistern, A huge underground chamber with row
after row of columns supporting the ground above it. It's claim to fame is
having been in a Bond movie (it starts to feel like every city has at least one
place from a Bond film after a while), and has some mysterious Medusa heads on
their sides as the base of two of the columns. Extra weird when you remember
this was a water storage chamber, so nobody would have actually been able to
ever see them in it's day cause it would be full of water.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11437961545/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Medusa head in Basilica Cistern by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7340/11437961545_b3a7cebbfc_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Medusa head in Basilica Cistern"></a>

We went into The Blue Mosque, which was a very beautiful building, but the
inside of it felt spoilt by the very low hanging racks of lights, suspended from
the ceiling by a thousand wires. It really stopped the space from feeling as
vast and open as it could have felt.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438096975/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Inside the Blue Mosque, soooooo many wires by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3788/11438096975_28ff49fcea_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Inside the Blue Mosque, soooooo many wires"></a>

We were all super impressed to see that they even let women pray inside, but
only from inside a little caged off part at the back where they cant be seen. So
very progressive, nice one Islam! You've managed to make Tony Abbott seem a little
less misogynistic in comparison.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438212153/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Blue Mosque by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7442/11438212153_27d52c7a5f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Blue Mosque"></a>

We met up that afternoon with Leigh and Nicolette for our last drinks together
as it was their last night before they were leaving us and heading back home to
Scotland :(

Luke, Amanda and myself went out on an evening boat cruise on the Bosporus,
which was a beautiful chance to see the city at night from the water.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438390154/in/set-72157638802576105" title="The old city and the Galata Bridge from the water by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5494/11438390154_d4e69997a5_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="The old city and the Galata Bridge from the water"></a>

We'd seen that a dentist convention was being held in town, and we actually
passed it, lit up Colgate sign being the give-away.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438451604/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Ain't no party like a Colgate party by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7405/11438451604_490dc39db6_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ain't no party like a Colgate party"></a>

We passed under the first bridge with it's lit up cables and got a really good
view of it's light show.

Having lost Leigh and Nic, we moved from our AirBNB apartment to a hostel over
in the old part of the city. The place had very friendly staff, the room was
pretty nice, and up on the top floor of the hostel there was a rooftop bar with
a pretty amazing view of the Hagia Sofia.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438588884/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Haigia Sophia from our hostel bar by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5494/11438588884_90b21fc58f_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Haigia Sophia from our hostel bar"></a>

I did some solo exploration of some of the museums and palaces as Amanda was
unwell and Luke wanted to work on some HCTP videos. I got a Museum card and
headed to the Archaeology museum which had an interesting exhibit on excavated
shipwrecks, well preserved because they'd been buried in silt, but they'd been
wet so long that they could not let them dry out naturally without the wood
warping, so they'd had to spend many weeks making them dry extremely slowly.

After that I went into the Topkapi Palace, a huge site with pretty magnificent
grounds showing off the lovely mix of colours, patterns and architecture from
the periods when it had been inhabited.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11438719436/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Inside Topkapi Palace by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3681/11438719436_ce00c5f3c8_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Inside Topkapi Palace"></a>

I had a slight misunderstanding about the museum card, thinking it allowed me to
enter any of the museums for the three days it was valid, but it turned out it
only let you into each place once during those 3 days. To get to the Harem you
needed to already be inside the Topkapi Palace, so my plan to look around the
palace that afternoon and come back and check out the Harem got changed up and I
had to rush a bit through both to fit them into the already late afternoon.

The Haram consisted of some beautifully decorated quarters for the sultan, his
family and his concubines, but quite a number of interesting sounding areas (for
example the concubine baths) were completely closed off for restoration works.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11439176553/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Stained glass by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5528/11439176553_9bf4f48f40_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Fancy much?"></a>

One evening in Istanbul I decided to find a barber to get my beard trimmed
properly since it was pretty long at this point, and extremely shaggy. It was
probably the first time I'd paid a barber in about a decade.  The guy was very
thorough, thinning the sides and giving it a much better shape. He also shaved
my head with a straight razor, trimmed my nose hairs, my eye brows, and my ear
hairs, then waved a lit cotton tip soaked in something flammable around my ears
to burn off hair and wax. Afterwards I felt the neatest I had in many months.

On our last day there I went into the Hagia Sofia "Museum", a huge building that
used to be a mosque. Calling it a museum was a bit of stretch because there
wasn't really any much information about anything to be found inside. It was in
the same realm of size as the Blue Mosque, but felt for more vast and open
without all the wires and lights that cluttered up the Blue Mosque.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11439287474/in/set-72157638802576105" title="Inside Hagia Sophia by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3770/11439287474_4af0ac4192_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Inside Hagia Sophia"></a>

We went out for a nice dinner on that last night and had our first Testi kebabs.
They're a kebab that is cooked in a clay pot shaped like a vase, which during
the serving they make quite a show of turning the pot upside down with foil over
the top to keep everything inside, and then smashing the bottom of the pot off
carefully and then pouring the casserole out through the smashed off bottom.
They'd obviously been slow cooked for a very long time as the meat was so
incredibly tender it just felt apart on your fork, and the whole thing was super
delicious.

We were up before sunrise the next day to catch our flight to Goreme in
Capadocia, home of the fairy chimneys and hundreds of hot air balloons.
