---
date: 2014-06-06 18:05
layout: post
title: "Spain, the rest of Andalusia"
tags: Spain, Andalusia, Cordoba, Seville, Malaga
travel_dates: 
---

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14082912566/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Roman bridge of Córdoba by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2904/14082912566_5b0ed9bc2c_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Roman bridge of Córdoba"></a>

Next stop in Andalusia was a town named Córdoba that's claim to fame is the
Mezquita, a Mosque-Cathedral. I arrived in the evening and explored around a
bit, finding the town to be almost completely deserted but did take some nice
photos of this Roman era bridge and tower.

<!-- more -->

The Internet tells you you should try and get to the Mezquita early in the
morning so you can get photos without all the crowds, but the Internet doesn't
factor in not being able to get to sleep until 5am in the morning, so I instead
got up around noon and went and had lunch for breakfast, a dish with ox tail
that was extremely nice.

After I'd eaten I headed over to the courtyard outside the Mezquita, a huge open
space full of orange trees. In fact, all of Córdoba is pretty well decked out in
orange trees; they seem to be a very common decorative plant in Andalusia.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13919408747/in/set-72157644463351646" title="The court of oranges by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2916/13919408747_13be1c076f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The court of oranges"></a>

I actually peeled one and tried it, and let me tell you: it tasted terrible.
The oranges on these trees are incredibly bitter and unpleasant. I asked someone
about it later to find out if maybe they just weren't ripe yet, but it turns out
they're just not the eating kind. I didn't even know there were not-eating
oranges. That person thought they might even be toxic to humans, so it's lucky
they taste awful enough that I spat out my first bite.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13919504160/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Beautiful archway by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2903/13919504160_495eca2d16_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Beautiful archway"></a>

Anyhow, I paid my admission and went into the Mezquita and it seemed that
afternoon was the perfect time for a visit. The place was nearly deserted,
giving me a chance to get a bunch of "postcard" shots without tour groups
cluttering them up.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14106540995/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Endless arches by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2915/14106540995_369781e1f5_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Endless arches"></a>

The building is absolutely massive, probably 150-200 Meters long and the same
again wide, and decked out with hundreds of columns, all topped with candy cane
coloured arches. It's very picturesque!


<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14083005976/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Pretty patterns. and Jesus on a cross, naturally. by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7304/14083005976_3ac0d2bd9a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Pretty patterns. and Jesus on a cross, naturally."></a>

The building was actually originally built as a mosque, and is apparently
regarded as one of the most accomplished monuments of Moorish architecture.
Córdoba was later captured from the Moors by a Catholic king so the building was
converted into a Catholic cathedral, adding many Christian features to the
building and converting the minaret into a bell tower.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13919575399/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Giant renaissance cathedral nave by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7302/13919575399_bf03ff09f1_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Giant renaissance cathedral nave"></a>

There was also this epic double organ with things up either side of the nave
(let's hope I'm using that word right, I saw it on Wikipedia but didn't care
enough to actually read the article), with pipes jutting out that made me think
of crazy drag-racing car exhausts.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13919678087/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Organ pipes by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2916/13919678087_789b8871e3_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Organ pipes"></a>

After I'd taken 50 billion photos of arches I started playing around with my
camera settings and super long exposure shots to let me get some low ISO photos
with the fairly low lighting. A tripod would have been awesome, but I don't own
one and they specifically disallow them there, so I made do with putting the
camera on various ledges.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14083226416/in/set-72157644463351646" title="I'm a ghost! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2913/14083226416_b46cff9418_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="I'm a ghost!"></a>

After doing a few I had the idea of running into the shot part way through the
exposure and standing still like a stature to try and get a transparent
ghost-like effect.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13919732469/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Double ghost! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5555/13919732469_29bbd66bbb_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Double ghost!"></a>

I then tried doing even longer exposure shots and running around stopping in multiple
places so I could be in the same photo two or more times, no Photoshop required!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14103168651/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Ghosts cast no shadow by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5271/14103168651_c3a3462bc7_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ghosts cast no shadow"></a>

I probably ended up spending more time messing around with crazy ideas for
photos than I did actually looking around the Mezquita. I had heaps of fun
figuring out what worked, and I think some of them turned out pretty awesome if
I do say so myself.

After Córdoba I got one of the speedy Renfe trains to Seville. A little digital
display in the train told me we were going 250km/hour, but it was still
wonderfully smooth and quite the whole time. I wish we had decent trains back
home in Australia.

I went on yet another free walking tour, led by a student from Columbia. The
tour itself was alright, but everyone on the tour seemed to be travelling in
groups of 2-4 and there wasn't much inter-mingling so it didn't feel very social
compared to some of the tours that I've really enjoyed.

I had heard from [Amanda and Luke](http://herecomestheplanet.com) that Seville doesn't
really live up to it's reputation and I have to agree. Nothing we visited on the
tour really stood out for me, so here's a token photo of Plaza de España with
all the water drained out.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13921314810/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Plaza de España by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7413/13921314810_d89de7e826_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Plaza de España"></a>

They did however recommend a fancy tapas place called [La
Azotea](http://laazoteasevilla.es/) which was absolutely fantastic. I had some
smoked cheese, cooked wild mushrooms, and pork cheek; and all of it was amazing.
It was hands down the nicest tapas I came across; so good that I came back again
for dinner the same day.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14jk128073893/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Alcázar of Seville by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7039/14128073893_295d0227fd_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Intricate carved archway in the Alcázar of Seville"></a>

I did get a tip from the tour guide that if I only visited once place, that the
Alcázar should be it, so after some difficulty actually locating it (Seville is
like a maze in the old part of the city) I checked it out.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14084997556/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Alcázar of Seville by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5231/14084997556_dd797d2f95_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Alcázar of Seville"></a>

The Alcázar is a stunning building and a royal palace. It has been added to by
each of the monarchs who have occupied it leading to a mix of a lot of different
styles from a lot of different periods in time.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14105067702/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Golden dome ceiling by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7189/14105067702_14497fe666_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Golden dome ceiling"></a>

I'm really starting to appreciate the Moorish style of decoration, where because
their religion prohibits them from creating a likeness of things  they have lots
of intricate geometric patterns and carvings as decoration. I find it much more
visually pleasing decoration than paintings and statues.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14104838381/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Water feature by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5578/14104838381_1afea7139b_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Water feature"></a>

There were lots of beautifully decorated court yards, and some huge green
gardens outside, but rain that day impeded me from exploring the external parts
of the palace very much.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14085111856/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Metropol Parasol by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5509/14085111856_b380ca185e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Metropol Parasol"></a>

In the evening I went and explored one of the stranger, modern attractions of
Seville: The Metropol Parasol. It's a huge wooden structure, several stories
high, apparently the largest wooden structure in the world. It looks kind of
like those [wooden dinosaur
kits](https://www.google.com/search?q=wood+dinosaur+kit&tbm=isch) you'd beg for
at museums when you were a kid (or was that just me?), except instead of a
dinosaur they got some crazy mushroom looking thing.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13921571459/in/set-72157644463351646" title="On top of the Metropol Parasol by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5465/13921571459_b78a62036f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="On top of the Metropol Parasol"></a>

At night it's all lit up with coloured lights and looks pretty funky. You can
pay a few euro to get up on top of it and walk around the path, there's even a
few bars up there and you get a free drink with your admission!

My next and final stop in Spain was in Málaga. It wasn't a place I'd ever really
even heard of before, but I was flying out from there so I thought I'd give it
a look.

The hostel I stayed in had a thing running that night where you could help their
cook make paella and then get to eat it afterwards, although it ended up move
like watching the cook make it while getting to meet some other people in the
hostel: Annika, a German girl studying in Spain, Joni, a Finland guy on
holidays, and another guy from Finland who's name I didn't get, but who was
shit-faced drunk, quite rude, and kept mentioning how he had an alcohol problem.

Those of us who weren't complete alcoholics went out for a few drinks (the
irony) after dinner and ended up in a pub trivia competition after meeting up
with a friend of Annika's named Lilia and her brother Thomas. I don't remember
how we went at trivia, almost certainly not well, but it was a really fun
evening out.

When I got back to the hostel I found another girl who was staying in my dorm
standing sort of awkwardly outside the door. Apparently the raging alcoholic was
asleep in someone else's bed, as he'd wet his own bed and the one below it, and
quite rightly she didn't want to be in there alone with him. The fun people you
meet in hostels! We went down to reception to see would could be done and they
very apologetically sorted us out and moved us into another room.

The next morning I went on yet another free walking tour which was given by an
Australian girl Natalie. It happened to be her birthday it was and it was her
first time giving a tour, so her sisters Vanessa and Shelly who were visiting
from London got us all to sing her happy birthday at the end of the tour.

The tour was good, went around Málaga and showed us the sites, although I was
probably a bit more interested in socialising. After not really meeting anyone
in Seville or Cordoba so it was nice to have some people to talk with.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13921701700/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Wine from the barrel by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2910/13921701700_236ca21f56_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Wine from the barrel"></a>

The tour visited this little tiny bar where you buy a glass of wine, straight
from the barrel. They had white wines and reds, sweet and dry; what I tried was
pretty good stuff.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14108309865" title="Tasty deli by Lucas Parry, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7058/14108309865_01eac7f8bf_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Tasty deli"></a>

We also went into a market full of tasty delis, with all the olives a person
could want, unless they didn't like olives in which case it would probably be
too many.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14128412563/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Catherdral with an unfinished tower by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7367/14128412563_57bd5ffc50_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Catherdral with an unfinished tower"></a>

We stopped under this cathedral which was supposed to be symmetrical but they
ran out of money and never finished it, so it has only one completed tower. I
think it's a bit more interesting this way anyway.

My afternoon consisted of a tapas lunch and a few beers with the Aussie girls
from the tour, then practicing spinning poi in a park for a while before going
home and having a nap. Then I went out for dinner with Annika and another girl
she'd met, Iva from Canada, at a little seafood place near the port, before
meeting up with Lilla and Thomas again for some €0.40 beers.  It's a hard life
being a traveller sometimes. :P

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13921692457/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Málaga by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5533/13921692457_71c44ab055_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Málaga"></a>

On Sunday I made a long walk up the hill to visit the Castle of Gibralfaro,
which was thankfully mostly shaded. I arrived just after 2pm, and conveniently
for me it happened to be free after 2pm on Sundays so I got in for nothing. The
castle was pretty peaceful, and you were able to walk around the tops of many of
the walls and have a nice view over the city.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14105274272/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Castle wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2919/14105274272_68dd815cb4_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Castle wall"></a>

The square-ish bits at the top of the wall were topped by triangles (check out
that terminology, they don't call me a castle-ologist for no reason!), which
someone told me is something to Moors would do to make Roman walls their more
Moorish or something.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14105301372/in/set-72157644463351646" title="*jaws music* by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5564/14105301372_4e0e7faf69_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="*jaws music*"></a>

The very last thing I did before leaving Spain was to hack off my 6-7 months of
beard growth off. It just felt like it was time to show the world I still had a
face under all that hair.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14105307192/in/set-72157644463351646" title="Ridiculous handlebars by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7179/14105307192_6f4f4ed294_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Ridiculous handlebars"></a>

Of course I didn't cut it all off right away :P I'd been working on growing out
a handlebar moustache from the beard for a few weeks and thought I'd let it
stand on it's own for a little while, as a bit of a laugh for the friends who I
was going to spend Christmas with. I still get a smile looking at this photo,
thinking about just how over the top it is! It really felt like I was wearing a
fake moustache disguise when I first cut it back to this.
