---
layout: post
title: "England"
date: 2014-02-15 16:57
tags: England, Beer, Nottingham, London, Stonehenge, Graffiti, Bristol, Bath
description:
published: false
dont_cache_images: true
priority: 0.5
---
Flying into Manchester from Athens, the first thing that struck me about
England was just how lusciously green everything was. Yes, I've been to England
before, I even lived there for nearly a year some time ago, but I was still
blown away by it. No other country I've been to has the rolling green hills like
England.


After landing in Manchester I got the train to Nottingham and went and met up
with my old friend Matty P at his local pub, the Vat and Fiddle. A few years had
passed since Matt left Australia so it was fantastic to catch up with him and
try a few pints of Castle Rock's fine ale selection. We made a quick trip to
Matt's house to dump my bags then headed to Brewdog to try a few more UK ales
before heading back to Matty's place for the nights rest.

<!-- more -->

The next morning we sought out a proper, full English breakfast from a local
cafe; bacon and eggs, sausages, mushrooms and baked beans. So
damn good! Only thing missing was black pudding, but we dealt with that
omission at subsequent breakfasts.

After breakfast we headed up to Nottingham castle for the event that drew me to
England at this time, [The Robin Hood Beer
Festival](http://www.beerfestival.nottinghamcamra.org/). It's a "real ale"
festival run by [CAMRA](http://www.camra.org.uk/), offering over 1,100 casks of
ale to sample, and about 300 ciders for those with no taste (Sorry Amanda
:P). They had 900 casks of ale tapped at any one time, with the others
"settling" so that when they're tapped they pour clear instead of being cloudy
with too much yeast.

On arrival you're given a bunch of tokens, two of which buys a third of a pint
of ale. The best part is that you don't have to spend any tokens to try an ale!
The people working there want you to find a beer you like before you commit to
drinking a third of it, and so will let you taste any of the beers for free.
The volume of these tastes would often be more than you'd get at a beer tasting
event back in Australia, and there you'd have to be spending tokens for the
privilege. England has beer tasting all figured out!

The people working serving the beers seemed pretty knowledgeable, and had a
surprisingly good balance of the genders. Still weighted towards males, but
there were a lot of ladies serving too. The people working were mostly
unaffiliated with any particular brewery, and were just beer lovers
volunteering.

There was an amazing variety food available there too. I ate a zebra burger from
a place with all sorts of wild game meat (wild boar, kangaroo, etc.). More
varieties of exotic meat than at Carnivore in Kenya! I think England's
reputation for bland, boring food is well out of date these days.

Not long after lunch Amanda and Luke arrived and met up with us at the festival,
it was great to see them again, and to taste beers and discuss them with Luke.

I worked it out afterwards, and I think I only drank about 6 pints over the
whole day there (8-10 hours of well paced drinking), but I got to try dozens of
different ales. So much better than the 1-2 hour tastings where you're rushing
everything so you don't run out of time. I think it also helped keep things
relaxed knowing that trying everything was impossible. I'd done the sums
and worked out that even just a 30ml shot of each beer would have meant drinking
over 30 litres. Australians like to drink, but even we aren't that stupid.

My favourite beer of the festival was [Bateman's Hazelnut
Brownie](http://www.bateman.co.uk/our+brewery/our+beers/speciality+cask+beers);
a sweet, rich syrupy beer with delicious chocolaty aroma. The name was pretty
much spot on describing how it smelt and tasted. It was not a session beer, but
it was nice to have a small glass of.

We left the festival in the early evening and made a stop in at [Ye Old Trip To
Jerusalem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ye_Olde_Trip_To_Jerusalem), one of
several pubs that claims to be the oldest in the UK. They claim to have been
serving beer there since 1189AD. The pub is partly carved out of a sandstone
cave, giving it a cosy atmosphere. It's mind-blowing to think that people have
been drinking at that same venue for almost 1000 years.

Our last stop for the night was at The Canalhouse, a little craft beer focused
pub along the canals, which actually has a section off the canal that runs in
through the pub.  Presumably it was for unloading casks of ale back in the days
(and maybe even still today?).  There we had a few strong craft beers (some
well over 9% ABV), which didn't help with the way we woke up feeling
the next morning. In case you can't guess, it wasn't fantastic.

Once we were up and going the next day, we made a visit to the op shops in the
rich part of town. I managed to score a good winter jacket for £8 and a dapper
hat for £6.50. Travelling without winter clothes worked out great for me this
time, and hopefully will again if I end up somewhere cold again in the future.

We did some scenic driving and had a nice long lunch at The Unicorn Hotel, a
traditional style country pub, where the Pedigree ale pie was fantastic.

On Saturday we went back to the beer festival for it's biggest day. We didn't
have pre-bought tickets so we got there before the gates opened to try and
ensure we'd get in. There we found a line of people winding way down the hill
and around the corner, all the while with England giving us some of its best
weather. In other words, it pissed down with rain.

Once the gates opened the line moved quite fast (although it continued to grow
about as fast as it moved), but we all got in without much hassle.

We went straight to the table area and secured ourselves a table and then I got
some chicken tikka masala for breakfast. It is not sensible drinking without a
bit of "ballast" in our stomachs as Matty P liked to put it.

This time we focused on the top tent where our table was, which conveniently had
the most different ales available. There was also a bottom tent, and then a few
other "renegade" tents with only one or two breweries beers available in them
two. It turns out you need a fair bit of space for 1100 casks of beer!

After the beer festival finished up, Luke and Amanda headed off to
explore the south of England. I decided I wanted to stop moving for a while and
stayed put in Nottingham for a nice long time.

My days comprised of sleeping in, working on my Spanish and spinning poi. Then
when Matty got home from his crazy long days at work we'd go out and visit any
one of the many local pubs, trying as many different ales as humanly possible.

It felt like a mutually beneficial situation. Matty got someone to help around
the house, some extra company, and a drinking buddy. I got the days to slow down
and relax without feeling like I was wasting my limited time in new city X, and
a great introduction to all that English ale has to offer.


After a few weeks of this it was time to head to London for Amanda and Luke's
leaving Europe celebrations. Matty and I got the bus to Victoria Station, then
headed straight to Camden to have Lunch at a nice pub Matt knew. Their menu
contained the "Cheese and bacon dirty burger". How can you go wrong with a name
like that?

After lunch we headed to a pub called The Old Haberdashery, where we were
meeting up with everyone. Amanda and Luke, Leigh and Nikki, and a few other
people we know who happen to be in London and had the afternoon free all made
it along.

After a lot of beers and reminiscing, we headed to the Boom Festival teaser
party, our main event for the evening, which turned out to be a terribly
organised disaster.

We spent two hours waiting in line to get into the venue, and this was with
everyone having pre-booked tickets, the event had sold out. There was a cloak
room line that didn't move whatsoever in the 15 minutes I stood there before
decided I wouldn't bother. I'd guess another 2 hours to cloak an item, and
another 3-4 to get it back at the end of the night.  A stupid token system at
the bar meant you had to queue up twice when you wanted a drink, or buy loads of
tokens and risk having a bunch left over at the end of the night. There was way
too many people packed into the tiny venue making the place so unbearably hot
that we went outside to the smoking area just to get out of the heat. This is in
London at the end of Autumn! I was so hot that I was comfortable outside in just
a T-shirt for ages before I stopped feeling overheated.

I'd love to say even in the face of all that I had a good time, but I didn't.
Pretty much everything about the night sucked. I was getting so mad about
how poorly planned everything was that I got a yelling at from Nicolette about
how negative I was being. I completely understand not wanting to make a bad
situation seem worse than it is, but when the dust settled the next week I
don't think anyone had a positive word to say about the event. I don't know how
Boom Festival could let such a farce of a party tarnish their brand like that.

We left before the event finished, as soon as the trains to Cambridge were
running again. Like sleepless zombies we endured something like 3 changes back
and forth onto buses because of weekend track works. Thank you Amanda for
staying awake and making sure we got there in the end!

In Cambridge we were staying at Amanda's good friend Andrew's place. When we
arrived we walked in, he handed us bacon sandwiches (what a champion!) and then
we all lay down and got some much needed rest.

Andrew was heading off to visit his family, so we were sort of house sitting for
him for Amanda and Luke's last few days in Europe. Cards against humanity (The
UK version) was played. £65 of fireworks were purchased and set off in a nearby
field (45 seconds of non-stop explosions). Cheese, wine and beer was consumed.
Good times were had.

After our few days there, Matty drove Luke and Amanda to London.  By the time we
got there, it was peak hour, so we stopped at a suburb in the outskirts and had
a few drinks until the trains would have quietened down. We said our goodbyes
and wished Amanda and Luke well on their American travels, before making the
long drive back to Nottingham.

For my penultimate weekend Matt kindly sorted us out some transport so we could
go and check out the one real thing on my list of stuff to see in England,
Stonehenge. I think the desire to see it actually stems from the movie European
Vacation, which is kind of lame, but seeing the real deal is pretty cool.

On the drive there we were buffeted with ice cold winds, dark clouds and rain,
but the wind actually worked in out favour, blowing us a clear patch in the sky
while we were waiting in line to get in, that lasted for our whole visit. The
weather while we were there was stunning, probably some of the best I saw during
this visit.

Learnt some interesting stuff from the far too verbose audio guides (when the
number plaques are only 10 metres of grass lawn apart, yet the audio companion
blabbers on for 20 minutes, you might be going into too much detail for the
average visitor). A third of each pillar is actually underground, meaning that the
already quite huge stones are actually 50% huger than they appear; they have
little pegs and holes to help keep the tops in place on the pillars; and the
heaviest one is estimated to weight 45 tons. Another amazing construction
project that nobody truly knows how they accomplished it, although they have
some theories that sound pretty reasonable.

After Stonehenge we headed to Bristol to visit an old friend, Jen, and to check
out some of the Banksy pieces around the city. I got an iPhone app guide to his
work around the city, which sadly a large proportion of have been vandalised and
since painted over, but it was awesome to see the ones that were still there.

We caught up with Jen over a few drinks, then headed to a fancy little
microbrewery bar and had way to many more tasty beers, followed by an obligatory
going-to-bed kebab before sleeping in the van. I slept in the back (which I
found out was not exactly sealed from the outside air) and matt slept in the
cabin. I was glad to have a reasonable sleeping bag that night.

The next day Matt and I both felt rubbish, so we wandered around trying to find
somewhere that was open to get a decent breakfast, eventually finding a place
called the Bristolian that had a great English breakfast, helping us both
feel much much better.

We decided to go and visit bath that day, a picturesque city full of beautiful
architecture. We walked around the city a bit, saw a stealthy bridge (shops
built on both sides of it hide the fact there's a bridge there at all), before
making the very long drive back to Nottingham.

I spent a few of my last few days of this visit to England in London, revisiting
sites I'd been to a decade earlier when I lived an hour away in Ipswich; lots of
nice nostalgia.

I went to Buckingham Palace and the huge gardens nearby, walked over to Big Ben
and The Palace of Westminster, then walked along the Thames for a bit before it
started raining.

I headed over to Trafalgar Square and Leicester Square and bought some last
minute tickets to see "The Book of Mormon" for that evening, a musical by the
guys behind South Park.

I tracked down a very fancy London beard barber shop and got my beard shaped for
way to much money, but you only live once. I got some good tips about shaping it
myself (that I screwed up a few months later) and some tips on handlebar
moustaches.

I visited the London Transport Museum which was quite an interesting collection
about all the eras and advancements in public transport in London. Funny to see
signs from the start of last century for the same stuff that people need to be
told today (don't block the doors, move down the isle, let people off first). It
seems like common sense may never have actually been common. I'd actually hoped
the museum would have a bit more of a focus on the underground specifically than
it did, nearly completely missing information about the many abandoned
underground stations, or 3d models of how the whole network and it's supporting
escalators/lifts actually fit together.

I went along to the Book of Mormon, which by that point was sold out completely,
but my seat was actually pretty decent on the ground floor with a good view of
the stage. one of the advantages of breaking social norms and doing things
alone. The musical was a funny tale of two Mormons who get sent to Uganda to
preach, one of who is a compulsive liar, the other a "star" Mormon. The star
loses faith so the liar steps up and makes up even crazier stuff than actual
Mormonism to get the Ugandans to stop doing bad things, such as killing one
another, or raping babies to cure their aids. I thought it poked a lot of fun of
Mormons, while not actually crossing any lines as far as South Park normally
does.

The next morning I went and saw London bridge, which is pretty dull but had a
great view of the tower bridge, which I love to look at.

I looped around and visited the tower of London, did the tour led by a beefeater
which I enjoyed just as much as last time. They have great delivery of their
stories and jokes making it both informative and enjoyable.

I went through and saw the crown jewels, this time looking out in particular for
the big ones stolen from Africa and India that I'd learned about in my travels,
which they don't make very much note about that side of the story and that they
wont return them.

An new interesting fact I learnt was that the tower was actually used as a
menagerie at one stage, filled with all kinds of exotic animals. A lot of the
animal husbandry back then left a lot to be desired, for example they had
ostriches but didn't know what they ate, so they tried feeding them iron nails,
which of course killed them; and they used to have a polar bear on a leash that
could swim in the Thames.

I went past the monument for the great fire of London, a very impressive pillar
mostly hidden by the large buildings around it, then got the tube to Camden
where I was staying for the night.

Camden has some very cool culture, and attracts some very odd people. One
example was quite a talented girl who was busking near the train station on an
electric violin, while some douchebag sat metres in front of her listening to
his iPod, moving only when someone tapped him on the shoulder and pointed out
what an incredibly rude twat he was being.

I wandered around the markets, seeing loads of great street art, vintage and
Victorian (?) era clothes, and lots of other cool stuff to look at. I wish I had
unlimited cash and no weight restrictions so I could buy a whole new wardrobe,
try out a completely new style (or just _have_ at all style really).

I visited Cyberdog, which I'm told is practically mandatory when going to
Camden, a store that pretty much doubles as a night club. The lights are dimmed,
the UV lights are on, there's a live hard trance DJ spinning records and everything.
The place is full of rave clothes and cool trinkets, a Tetris night light that
comes apart completely and the blocks light up as you stack them in whatever
order you please, Pacman ghost ponchos. Quite an unique and wonderful shop.
Sadly they don't allow you to use cameras inside the store.

I spent the evening checking out my hostels open mic night, where the acts
varied from extremely talented, to please-stop-now, this is painful.

The next morning mostly got wasted at the apple store. The camera in my phone
had been showing some weird graphics distortions, which meant they were happy to
replace it on the spot. Unfortunately this mean I then had a blank phone and
needed to restore from iCloud in order to have access to any of my important
stuff like maps and my bus ticket back to Nottingham. It turns out the wifi in
an apple store gets hammered pretty heavily by all the people using it, so it
took forever and then some to restore.  Still, shiny brand new phone for the
third time! It feels there's definitely been a drop in build quality from the
iPhone 4 production to the iPhone 5.

The afternoon was entirely spent at the science museum, full of fascinating
exhibitions of aviation, mechanical computers, the materials things are made of,
the human body and loads more. I spent 5 hours there before they kicked everyone
out and closed, but I wish I had more time as there was so many more sections to
visit.

I met up with my old friend Andrew, who lived in Australia for a year a while
back, and we went to a nice pub called "The cask" for some delicious ales and
some very gourmet burgers, and a lot of catching up. We talked "shop" for a
little while and it was reassuring to still be able to feel like I'm not too far
out of the loop. I guess as quickly as tech changes, the things people enjoy
ranting about change much more slowly.

I got the bus home late that night, which didn't make it into Nottingham until
around about 2am. I stumbled back from the bus station to Matty's place and
promptly passed out.

The next morning Matty made us an epic breakfast for lunch, then we set out to
make one last visit to all the pubs in town before I left. In at Brewdog we had
a nip of [Tactical Nuclear Penguin](http://www.brewdog.com/blog-article/214)
each; one of their rarer, strong (32%), exotic and expensive drops.  Thankfully
at the Brewdog bars at least they'll sell by the 30ml, instead of having to buy a
330ml bottle. It was superb, but it is an impossible beer to follow as the
flavour is just so intense.

On my final day in England, we drove out to a nice country pub. Sadly it had a
rather poor selection of ales, so we drove right back into town and found a
place doing an awesome Sunday roast for lunch. That pub was conveniently located
near the building which was used for Wayne manor in one of the Batman films, so
we checked that out too. It's an impressive mansion with a huge green grounds
surrounding it.

The next day I was off to the airport bright and early to catch a flight to
Berlin, to find out just how large the gaps in my knowledge about the Cold War
really were.
