---
layout: post
title: "Barcelona, Spain"
date: 2014-05-03 14:15
tags: Spain, Barcelona, Tapas
description:
published: true
priority: 0.5
travel_dates: 
---

Even in winter the weather is Barcelona is lovely. As soon as I landed and got
through customs, I put my heavy winter jacket away and was quite comfortable in
just a T-shirt. It seemed like the warm weather would be great for helping me
kick a cold that had been hanging around for my last few weeks in Berlin, which
had left me sniffing and congested for far too long.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809549773/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Sagrada Familia by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3669/13809549773_b5c9a73fbe_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="La Sagrada Familia"></a>

<!-- more -->

I spent the first few days not doing very much, walking around the city near La
Rambla and enjoying the warmth, and trying to rest up.

Once I was feeling a bit better I took a free walking tour of Barcelona that
went around a number of sites in the heart of Barcelona and gave some background
and history about the city. The tour really made me realise how little I know
about Spanish history, even the quite recent parts. I did not know that they had
had a dictatorship right up until the mid-70s, which was apparently allowed by
the rest of Europe because their dictator hadn't supported Hitler in WWII.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807882714/in/set-72157643866689355" title="First glimpse of Caga Tio, the shitting log by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2840/13807882714_d5216a705b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="First glimpse of Caga Tio"></a>

I also learnt about some rather unique Catalan Christmas traditions. The first
being Caga Tio (Literal translation: Uncle Shit), a log with a smiling face and
a blanket. Each day leading up to Christmas the kids beat Caga Tio with sticks
"to help with digestion". Then on Christmas day, if the kids have beaten him
enough to help him with his digestion problems, they peer under Caga Tio's
blanket and find that he's pooped out a load of candy. An important life lesson
to teach your kids!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810536113/in/set-72157643866689355" title="So many caganers by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7126/13810536113_62c182214f_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="So many caganers"></a>

Another strange Catalan Christmas tradition is the caganer. The caganer is a
little man, squatted over with his arse hanging out of his pants, and on the
ground behind him is a freshly made turd. He's apparently hidden somewhere in
every good Catalan person's nativity scene, and the kids love to search for him.
There was stall after stall selling these caganers, which you can get in the
likeness of all kinds of celebrities, the most distasteful being Nelson Mandela
the very same week he died. The guide said the caganer had something to do with
the idea of giving back to the earth, but it just seems like they're obsessed
with poop to me.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807913783/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Nathalie, Ibrahim and me by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7309/13807913783_34a18f23dc_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Nathalie, Ibrahim and me"></a>

One evening I arranged to meet up with one of my old Envato workmates Ibrahim,
and his beautiful wife Nathalie, to go and eat at a really nice tapas place they
had told me about.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807896004/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Tapas by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7013/13807896004_9b77c7e756_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Awsome tapas"></a>

The place did not disappoint, everything we tried was delicious from the Spanish
ham and croquettes to the not-so-traditional perfectly cooked little steak
bites, with delightful sangria to wash it all down. I think my stand-out
favourite was the little sandwiches with
[sobrasada](/images/sobrasada_de_bellota.jpg) (basically spreadable chorizo) and
melted cheese. Spreadable meat seems like it should be a bit wrong, but it tasted
fantastic. I'm told that when [sturicho](/images/sturicho.jpg) was visiting he
loved the stuff too; Ibby said he probably would have brushed his teeth with the
stuff if he could have :P

It was great to see Ibrahim and Nathalie again, they're both such kind
hospitable people. It's always a pleasure spending time with them and I look
forward to (hopefully) being able to converse in Spanish with them the next time
we meet.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13807979643/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Palau Güell's beautiful entrance by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7071/13807979643_2e3c6aae51_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Palau Güell's beautiful entrance"></a>

I managed to get along to see Güell palace, a building that was once the home of
the Güell family, and which had been closed for renovations the last time I was
in Barcelona.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808355844/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Parabolic arches by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7302/13808355844_14212b2d48_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Parabolic arches"></a>

It's another very beautiful building designed by Gaudí, designed with lots of
smooth curves and vibrant colour. Gaudí used a lot of parabolic arches and other
unique geometry in his designs which give both strength as well as visually
interesting features to the building.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808807974/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Wrought iron work by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3801/13808807974_c1b85cb2b3_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Wrought iron work"></a>

It featured a lot of quite complex wrought iron work which must have been made
by very skilled craftsmen. It was all so neat and regular, it's hard to believe
it wasn't done by a machine.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808579334/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Palau Güell chimneys by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3819/13808579334_34846ded2c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Palau Güell chimneys"></a>

Up on the roof there were heaps of colourful chimneys, no two the same. Many
were decorated with lots of tiny bits of broken tile, a style heavily used by
Gaudí in a lot of his works, but there were also a few that were just red bricks
built in interesting formations.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808511193/in/set-72157643866689355" title="The bullring shopping center by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3830/13808511193_4e985a5e60_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The bullring shopping center"></a>

I made a visit  to Plaza de España to go up to the roof of Arenas de Barcelona,
an old bullring that has since been converted into a shopping centre. There's a
lift out the front that you have to pay a few Euro to get up to the viewing
platform on the roof, or you can go inside the shopping centre and use the
escalators and get up there for free.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808520673/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Looking out from the rooftop, straight at a hotel pool by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3684/13808520673_8e1f63c67c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Looking out from the rooftop, straight at a hotel pool"></a>

From the roof you get a nice view of the city in most directions. You also get a
view looking straight at a hotel's swimming pool. I imagine it was built long
before the viewing platform was there, but I can't imaging people rushing to use
the pool now with hoards of people at Arenas looking straight out at you.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808555395/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Montjuïc Castle by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5504/13808555395_c2fe7003c2_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Montjuïc Castle"></a>

From there I got a bus to Montjuïc Castle and explore. I remember visiting here
the last time I was in town, and the building seemed mostly how I remembered it,
although I'm pretty sure it wasn't free last time and now it is :D

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808612155/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Barcelona by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7004/13808612155_755dbcd073_c.jpg" width="800" height="500" alt="Barcelona"></a>

It's up on top of a hill, so it's another great place to get a view of Barcelona.

In the evening I went to see a light/water/sound show known as "The Magic
Fountain". When I arrived there was an absolutely massive crowd and the show
seemed to be delayed. Nobody seemed to have much of an idea what was going on so
I ducked off for a quick drink, then from where I was having my drink I saw a
huge fireworks show going off from the direction of the fountain. It wouldn't
have seemed out of place on the TV amongst a wrap-up of the years NYE fireworks,
it was really epic. I found out later that this was just for some couples wedding...
rich people!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808981964/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Magic fountain by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2909/13808981964_21e85ea3b0_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Magic fountain"></a>

Anyway, I went back to the fountain and found that now that the fireworks were
over they were back to a more normal schedule for the fountain. I took a seat
and watched the wonderfully synchronised display. Some of the water effects were
really foamy, and light and fluffy looking, and the lights coming through made it look like some
sort of magic smoke. Really cool to see.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810906184/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell Logo by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5321/13810906184_e7aab18a47_c.jpg" width="800" height="504" alt="Park Güell Logo"></a>

On a day that happened to be another public holiday I tried to go to Sagrada
Familia, but the queue went right around the block. I wasn't really keen on
waiting for hours to get in and have the place be cramped full of people so I
went to Park Güell instead.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809086694/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell main stairway by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7090/13809086694_ec3de27f4a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Park Güell main stairway"></a>

Sadly the public holiday meant even though I didn't have to wait long to get in,
the park was packed to the rafters with people and felt like a circus. Nothing
like the peaceful, attractive park I had such nice memories of.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13808713993/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Spiral pillars by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7230/13808713993_668bf0eec4_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Spiral pillars"></a>

It was really challenging to get a nice photo of any of the signature parts of
the park without a dozen people also in the shot posing for their next Facebook
avatar. I did manage to get a few shots that might mislead you into thinking it
wasn't like that at all, but that's only because I'm both stubborn and patient
and will wait around for 10+ minutes waiting for that tiny gap.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809144934/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell dragon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2866/13809144934_9a03d34057_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Park Güell dragon"></a>

The most well known part of the park, the dragon, was a nightmare. There was an
endless line of people waiting to rush in for their photo, myself included. I
did manage to get one nice shot of it by itself, but the photos with me in them
all had photobombers in the background.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809190964/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Park Güell by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7395/13809190964_2a5f3c5741_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Park Güell"></a>

I ended up leaving feeling a bit sick (the cold was still hanging around),
frustrated and generally fed up with large crowds. I probably should have just
rested on the public holidays and gone the next day.

I noticed that there was a couch surfing meet up happening at a little flamenco
concert at a bar on the other side of town, so I headed over to check it out. I
met a bunch of lovely South Americans there who all lived in Barcelona now. It
was nice to hear some Spanish that I knew was actually Spanish for a change, all
the Catalan that's spoken in Barcelona is really off-putting for a Spanish
learner.

The flamenco show had beautifully played guitar and singing, and some _very_
passionate dancing. I had a "front row" seat, which meant the woman dancing was
often facing right towards me, barely 2ft away, which did make me feel quite
uncomfortable and self-conscious. My brain is weird sometimes.

One of the couch surfers was a nice girl from Chile, Natalia, who insists that I
get in touch with her where I go to Chile or Uruguay, so she can put me in touch
with her friends there to maybe stay with them. Win!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809497833/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Casa Batlló Façade by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3806/13809497833_e3fbede624_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Casa Batlló Façade"></a>

Next up went and had a look at Casa Batlló, another home designed by Gaudí.
A lot of parts of the place have a bit of a dragon theme to them, with lots of scales
and bone-like features on the façade and several more within.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809039093/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Whirlpool ceiling by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7357/13809039093_b7955d4fc3_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Whirlpool ceiling"></a>

This room had a very unique ceiling that spiralled around to look like a
whirlpool vortex, with curved walls, curved doors... pretty much curved
everything.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809204735/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Casa Batlló by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2832/13809204735_0f45c216f5_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Casa Batlló"></a>

The internal stairwell is tiled with blue tiles, but with darker tiles at the
top, slowly fading to lighter blue tiles at the bottom. This was done to
compensate for the colours being washed out by the bright light of the skylight
when looking up, so it would appear a uniform blue, and it worked pretty well at
doing so.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809366973/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Casa Batlló rooftop by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7117/13809366973_f627feefd8_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Casa Batlló rooftop"></a>

Up on the rooftop there were more zany chimneys, decorated with the broken tile
style. I don't know why every fireplace needs it's own separate chimney at the
very top, but it makes them look interesting at least.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809385475/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Dragon scale tiles by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7401/13809385475_22543ea05a_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Dragon scale tiles"></a>

The roof tiles used on the very top of the façade really look like scales, with
the ridge of the roof looking kind of like a colourful spine. Yet another
building that would have been so cool to actually live in.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810183203/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Epic lighting by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7222/13810183203_d87235eb86_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Epic lighting inside La Sagrada Familia"></a>

I returned to La Sagrada Familia and this time the lines were far more
reasonable and I got in in about 20 minutes. This was one of my favourite
buildings the last time I came to Spain and it still is today. It's probably my
single favourite building anywhere in the world. A big call, but it's one heck
of an impressive structure.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810039463/in/set-72157643866689355" title="The passion façade by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3750/13810039463_727a96e8f0_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="The passion façade"></a>

The building has been under construction for around 130 years now, with
information in the museum estimating it will be completed in 2030, so I may even
live to see it finished. My favourite side of the building last time was "The
Passion" façade, which this time unfortunately was partially covered in
scaffolding. The sculpture style is very angular and not really attempting to
look really human, which I feel makes it far more interesting than the generic
style that seems to dominate sculpture.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810295075/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Model of the completed Sagrada Familia by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7096/13810295075_f30b748621_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Model of the completed Sagrada Familia"></a>

I found this model and learnt that even though the building is already huge, the
5 or 6 tallest towers are not built yet. The central "Jesus" tower alone is
going to be nearly double the height of any of the existing ones. Epic!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810099654/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Inside a tower through the doorway arch by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2895/13810099654_fd5569be9d_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Inside a tower through the doorway arch"></a>

I got to go up inside one of the Nativity towers, which thankfully they have an
elevator to take you up. You get a good view of the city, some interesting
angles on the construction that's taking place, and some eery long drops to look
down the middle of spiral staircases.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13809927463/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Spiral! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7249/13809927463_026c86c61a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Spiral!"></a>

It was a lot of steps down from the tower, in a rather tight and dizzying
spiral, but it's way better walking down steps than up them.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810315284/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Stunning lighting in the afternoon by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7340/13810315284_70ee143cc7_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Stunning lighting in the afternoon"></a>

The time of day, and the intense brightness of the suns, meant that the stained
glass was casting lots of wonderfully pretty light inside the building. There
are still large area where the windows are just plain glass, so I can only
imagine the rainbow this place will be when all the windows are done.

I just love all the clean complexity of all the shapes involved, with so much of
it coming from fairly simple math and geometry concepts. The columns for example
are [double
twisted](http://www.sagradafamilia.cat/sf-eng/docs_instit/geometria1.php),
meaning that they have twice as many "sides" at their tops than they
do at the bottom, and there's no sudden point where this shape change takes
place. There was a video of the machine they used to produce them and it was
mesmerizing to watch. [The whole geometry
section](http://www.sagradafamilia.cat/sf-eng/docs_instit/geometria1.php) of the
official site is worth checking out if you like that kind of stuff.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810328804/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Rainbow pillars by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2919/13810328804_7ac1795f11_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Rainbow pillars"></a>

That was in the very interesting museum underneath that I don't recall from
last time. There was lots of information about the design, including a replica
of the hanging model of the building, made from string and sandbag weights,
which was used to work out the correct angles for everything to bear the weight.

I've started to wonder what my photos from last time I visited looked like, and
if I had enough foresight to take photos of both the completed and under
construction parts of the building to compare. This time I made sure I took some
photos of the construction, which while not particularly interesting now, will
be great to look back on in 20 years and seeing this massive structure still
heavily in progress.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13810745704/in/set-72157643866689355" title="Crazy rainbow building by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3706/13810745704_f46a278fb5_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Crazy rainbow building"></a>

The last thing of note I checked out was this strange egg shaped building called
Torre Agbar. At night the building is a slowly changing cloud of colours. It's
quite impressive to see a 30+ story building semi-randomly changing colours in
the darkness.
