---
layout: post
title: "Berlin, Part 3"
date: 2014-04-23 15:05
tags: Berlin, Germany
published: true
description:
priority: 0.5
travel_dates: 
---

One very cold a miserable morning I went to see Sachsenhausen concentration
camp, out at Oranienburg. The camp was about a two kilometre walk from the
station in literally freezing cold mist.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574136123/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Sachsenhausen concentration camp by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5154/13574136123_5128f1e198_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Sachsenhausen concentration camp"></a>

<!-- more -->

This camp had been used by the Nazis during the war, but also used by the
Russians around 1945-50 after the war ended, who continued to the use the camp
to kill those who opposed the Russian control of East Germany after the war.
There was lots of info about individual prisoners accounts and that sort of
thing, but it was all just small fragments so I left without a very good picture
of what things were like during that later period.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574588603/in/set-72157643245435323" title="The part used by Russia after WWII by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2865/13574588603_d6129b1b7b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The part used by Russia after WWII"></a>

The foundations of the buildings containing the gas chambers and the oven were
all that is left of that structure. The building also contained the neck-shot
room, in which they would tell the prisoners they were going to measure their
height against a tape measure on the wall, but then a person in the adjoining
room would fire a shot through a slit in the wall straight into their neck,
killing them. The Nazis were not nice people at all.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574715373/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Ovens foundations by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3818/13574715373_5fa26d9d74_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Ovens foundations"></a>

The exhibition in the infirmary had mention of there being a brothel on site,
where some females prisoners were forced to work, being raped by soldiers and
selected prisoners as a means of rewarding them. Really messed up stuff.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574950624/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Guard tower by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2816/13574950624_3b90ef9ba6_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Guard tower"></a>

It was cold enough the day I was there that most water on the ground had frozen
solid, and the misty rain that started again as the sun was setting was
unpleasantly cold, but strangely appropriate for the setting. It really helped
imagine how hard it would have been being a new prisoner arriving in the winter,
being given only summer clothes and made to stand out in the yard for 24 hours,
not being allowed to move. I'm not surprised by how many died on their first
night there.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574729685/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Frozen puddle by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3824/13574729685_1de76ae3d8_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Frozen puddle"></a>

After leaving the camp I walked past a gluhwein seller not far down the road
who was an absolute lifesaver. There's nothing like a hot, alcoholic beverage to
warm your chilled bones.

It was about this time that I had to move out from the Nicoles place as they had
a friend coming to stay for Thanksgiving. I was sad to be leaving, they're both
really lovely people. They made me feel right at home while I was there with
them, so welcoming and friendly.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576145783/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Me and the two Nicoles, hiding out behind a tea fort by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2835/13576145783_14b4d46382_c.jpg" width="765" height="800" alt="Me and the two Nicoles, hiding out behind a tea fort"></a>

Random fact about Nicole and Nicole is they like tea, and own enough of it to build a
tea-fort.

I moved to a hostel which had great reviews online, but turned out was almost
solely inhabited by very blokey Australian guys, aside from the one staff member
there who was English I think and very camp. I felt pretty out of place to put
it nicely.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574866713/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Beate Uhse Erotic Museum by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5278/13574866713_2ab2331733_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Beate Uhse Erotic Museum"></a>

I went and had a look at an erotic museum, part of the oldest sex shop in the
world: Beate Uhse. It seemed like there was a lot of potential to have been a
very interesting museum but I found the place sort of dull. One of the two
floors was almost solely about the woman who owned it, and the other floor was
full of drawings and things that you could have told me were kitsch holiday
souvenirs and I wouldn't have blinked.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576132425/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Nicole and Nicole are lovely people by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3798/13576132425_d19510e3d9_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Nicole and Nicole are lovely people"></a>

Having only just left the Nicoles place, I was invited back the next night to
take part in their Thanksgivukah celebrations, combining Thanksgiving and
Hanukkah. My first exposure to either holiday :D The food  was delicious, mostly
vegetarian or vegan, and the deserts were sickeningly sweet!  It was nice to
meet some of their friends, one of whom was an Australian girl who was also born
in Wagga Wagga (the amusingly named town I was born in), and also moved away at
a very young age. What are the odds?

I got a message from Harmen that he was back in Berlin again so we met up and
visited the DDR museum, a museum about how things were in East Germany during
the communist era. It was a great exhibition, but it's crying out for a bigger
space. The exhibition is overflowing with so much stuff to show that half of it
is hidden behind little flaps you open or in drawers that you pull out, which
isn't really compatible with having the place so packed full of people that
there's no room to open the exhibitions. Hopefully the popularity will lead to
them thinking about a bigger venue.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13574951913/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Me in a Trabant by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7361/13574951913_4fec5217ce_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Me in a Trabant"></a>

One really neat thing there was the recreation of the inside of an East
German apartment, complete with hidden bugs that you could listen to from
another room in the museum.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13575388144/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Cheers Harmen! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3745/13575388144_018a2b7751_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Cheers Harmen!"></a>

After the museum we went to to a brew pub called Brew Baker, that I'd been told
had an amazing pumpkin ale on a special brew, a style of beer that I'd never
tried before. The pumpkin ale was alright, but the IPA and a super sweet dark
beer they also had were my favourites. It was located inside a really nice
looking little indoor market.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/11224583626" title="Collapsed bridge in front of the wheel by Lucas Parry, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2853/11224583626_70108cfed5_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Collapsed bridge in front of the wheel"></a>

It was around this time I went and spent a day exploring Spreepark, an old
abandoned theme park in a pretty derelict state that I [blogged about earlier
here](http://www.lucasthenomad.com/2013/12/05/spreepark-Berlin). Just recently I
saw [this
article](http://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/berlin-just-bought-abandoned-theme-park-180950287/)
saying that the city of Berlin has now bought the park, so I may have gotten in
just in time to see it before it gets redeveloped into something else.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13575101705/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Charlottenburg Palace by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3828/13575101705_f688cbbd87_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Charlottenburg Palace"></a>

One morning I tried to go and see Schloss Charlottenburg, a huge palace now used
as a museum, but I didn't think about the fact it was Monday so the building was
closed. I did get to explore the gardens though, which were really beautiful.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13575266765/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Charlottenburg Palace gardens by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7113/13575266765_a2c54864c0_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Charlottenburg Palace gardens"></a>

There was a lovely light frosting on the certain parts of the very neatly
manicured garden which gave a lovely effect.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13575465633/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Charlottenburg Palace gardens by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7233/13575465633_0a3d226a0e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Charlottenburg Palace gardens"></a>

I spent my last few evenings in Berlin venturing around to various Christmas
markets. At home I've felt jaded about Christmas for many years, but there was
something about Christmas in Berlin that got through to me.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13575685933/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Christmas Markets by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7378/13575685933_404c26c7ae_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Alexanderplatz Christmas Markets"></a>

For once it didn't feel like a giant event organised by big companies to sell
more shit you don't really need. There was great food, tasty beverages, rides
and amusements and most importantly there were jolly people having a good time.
This is quite a contrast that to my image of Christmas back home: overcrowded
shopping malls full of grumpy people who don't want to be there, and it's easy
to see why I prefer the way Berlin does it.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576063984/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Gluhwein! by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7368/13576063984_d6d4128944_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Gluhwein!"></a>

The first market I went to explore was the huge one set up near Alexanderplatz,
which was kind of like a big show in a country town. There were loads of places
selling gluhwein; you could get the regular stuff, optionally with a shot of
spirits or schnapps, or eierpunsch, which is yellow and creamy like eggnog,
super sweet and with whipped cream on top. They even had gluhbier, spiced beer
served warm that was rich and a little sweet. Naturally I had to try all of
them. Some of them more than once.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576186964/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Christmas Markets by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3694/13576186964_b29f3390fb_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Alexanderplatz Christmas Markets"></a>

I had some tasty shredded pork stuff for dinner, and a bag of "donut hole" type
things for desert, and boy did I feel sick afterwards from eating all that sweet
stuff.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576273754/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Bergstraße, the last street still cut off by the Berlin wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3730/13576273754_865530b401_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Bergstraße, the last street still cut off by the Berlin wall"></a>

I spent my last day  at the Berlin Wall memorial. There are fragments of the
multiple layers of wall, and there is a street that the wall still crosses
which is the last street still cut off by the wall today.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576371664/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Deadzone through a crack in the wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7348/13576371664_0933a8fc86_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Deadzone through a crack in the wall"></a>

There's also a section that has been rebuilt to have both complete walls, a
guard tower and lights, giving you a much better feeling how it would have
really felt to be trapped in East Germany during the Soviet era.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576109973/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Wall reconstuction as seen from the viewing platform by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3819/13576109973_71720c6006_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Wall reconstuction as seen from the viewing platform"></a>

There's also a viewing tower built nearby so you can get a more elevated view of
the whole thing.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576308664/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Me and the wall by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3756/13576308664_0f9c9a2677_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Me and the wall"></a>

There were some interesting stories about buildings that were right along the
border, that had doors opening both into East and West Berlin, allowing the
owners access to both sides. Eventually the West German side was bricked up to
stop people escaping via these houses, then the people were evicted, and finally
the buildings were torn down.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576059895/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Bernauer Straße by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7390/13576059895_af1afc3e82_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Bernauer Straße Station"></a>

West Berlin also had the underground train network, parts of which passed
through under East Berlin city centre, but to stop people escaping through the
metro tunnels the stations in East Berlin were bricked up and abandoned.
Bernauer Straße station was one such station, but you wouldn't know it today.

I snuck in an amazing last lunch at a nice little place not far from the heart
of the city, and ate this amazingly good pork knuckle. The meat was so tender it
just fell apart; I could have eaten it with just a fork.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13787696054" title="Amazing pork knuckle, the meat was so very tender by Lucas Parry, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm4.staticflickr.com/3766/13787696054_4316f8a490_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Amazing pork knuckle, the meat was so very tender"></a>

My bill came and it was mysteriously discounted by 20%, and I was so happy with
the meal I tipped the 20% right back to them. :D

My last night in Berlin I hit a few more of the more traditional style Christmas
markets at PrenzlauerBerg and Charlottenburg. These ones were far less fun-park
like and had even more variety in food and handicrafts.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576227415/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Swinging Barbecue by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm8.staticflickr.com/7397/13576227415_9b6456df0d_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Swinging Barbecue at PrenzlauerBerg"></a>

PrenzlauerBerg had a strong showing of Swedish and Finnish stalls with their own
takes on Gluhwein.  There was also some huge BBQs where the grill was suspended
by chains above the coals, slowly swinging and turning. I'm not sure if it had a
functional purpose but it looked cool!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/13576305803/in/set-72157643245435323" title="Charlottenburg Palace Christmas Market by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3798/13576305803_c78197835f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Charlottenburg Palace Christmas Market"></a>

The Charlottenburg markets were out the front of Charlottenburg Palace, with
lots and lots of food places. I had myself an epic roast dinner, then a huge
Hungarian donut thing before stumbling home to my hostel to get ready for my
flight the next morning to Spain.
