---
date: 2014-07-01 20:35
layout: post
title: "Poi Love Camp"
tags: Costa-Rica, Finca-Mia, Poi, retreat
travel_dates: 2014-01-12 - 2014-01-27
---

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14327186196/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Group shot after hot springs by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3894/14327186196_422b5130c3_c.jpg" width="800" height="534" alt="Poi Love Camp group shot minus Jonathan"></a>

Poi Love Camp was an 11 day retreat focused on becoming better poi spinners,
held in Costa Rica, and run by Nick Woolsey, the man behind
[PlayPoi](http://www.playpoi.com). Also teaching there was one of the spinners
who has inspired me the most:&nbsp;Jonathan Alvarez, and also the mind-bendingly
talented Alien Jon.

The retreat had been on my radar for a little while, but it wasn't until a few
days before Christmas when I decided that I really wanted to get out of the
European winter that I started seriously thought about going. A day later I had
bought flights and tickets to what ended up being one of the most fun fortnights
I've ever had. Impulsive travel planning at it's best.

<!-- more -->

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14349420794/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Finca Mia by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3865/14349420794_0733e78d5a_c.jpg" width="800" height="533" alt="Finca Mia"></a>

It was held at a property right next to [Cerro
Chirrip√≥](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cerro_Chirrip%C3%B3) called Finca Mia, a
beautiful eco-retreat up in the hills, with a pretty little river running
through the property.


Just about everyone attending stayed at the same hotel in San Jose for a night
on arrival, so we could all get driven out to the site together in a minivan the
next day. It was astonishing cool to come down for breakfast and find Nick,
Jonathan and Jon all seated around a table talking about poi. The guys from the
videos you've watched over and over, trying to work out what sort of voodoo
they're using to pull off tricks that appear to defy physics, now right there in
front of you, and you're eating breakfast with them. I was actually kind of star
struck for most of the first day and felt too intimated to actually even spin in
front of those guys.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14163597899/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Pool time, sunscreening up my head by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2902/14163597899_980c379513_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Pool time, sunscreening up my head"></a>

There was some pool side video making in the morning with Nick and Jonathan
trying to spin underwater, and general mingling and getting to meet everyone
there.

The minivan ride was lots of fun, everyone discussing how they got started
spinning, how long they'd been doing it etc. There were some great stories told,
but I think Jonathan's story telling abilities deserve a special mention, he's
nearly as good at story telling as he is at poi. But stories told at Poi Love
Camp, stay at Poi Love Camp :P

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14327145806/in/set-72157645015360162" title="ATM Pitstop means it's time to spin by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2900/14327145806_09a86953dc_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="ATM Pitstop means it's time to spin"></a>

Every time the van would stop for any reason, people would jump out and start
spinning, to the amusement/confusion of the local Ticos, many of who'd never
seen anything like it.

When we arrived at Finca Mia I got lucky and ended up with a cabin to myself
called the sunrise cabin. It only had 3 walls and a curtain for the fourth wall,
facing the direction that the sun rises. It was kind of surreal having a room
that just opened straight out into the forest!

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14327238376/in/set-72157645015360162" title="My cabin from below by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5514/14327238376_e163a315b8_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="My cabin from below"></a>

As the sun set that first evening, loads and loads of fireflies started to
appear; at first I wasn't sure it wasnt just that thing where skin cells in your
eyes float around and sparkle, but I got up close to one with a light and saw it
really was a glowing little bug. They made the place feel like a some sort of
magical pixi-land with little glowing dots all along the pathways. There was
actually quite a lot of wild life on the property, loads of lizards,
hummingbirds, even an armadillo that came stumbling through on occasion!

It was really lovely getting to get to know everyone at camp. Everybody was very
friendly and approachable and after a few days it felt like I'd known these
people for a whole lot longer than I had.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14163685890/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Looking in to the yoga deck by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3902/14163685890_65c2b86dab_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Looking in to the yoga deck from the balcony"></a>

Days largely consisted of yoga first thing in the morning, followed by a very
varied and delicious organic breakfast and some time to relax or go for a quick
swim. I stuck it out with the yoga for about a week before giving in and coming
to terms that my calves and hamstrings have become way too tight for most of the
poses these days. One day I'll have to really focus on getting some of the
flexibility back I lost while I was injured, but attempting poses way beyond my
limits isn't the right path to that.

A bit later we'd spend a few hours leading up to lunch back up on the yoga deck
working on various poi skills with a big focus on getting the basics super
solid, various methods of counting/timing to fit better with music, performance
and choreography.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14346986521/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Poiruvian man synchro by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5155/14346986521_f9e1a71ab8_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Poiruvian man synchro"></a>

Lunch would be another healthy buffet of amazing food, followed by a bit more
free time in which I often took the chance to swim in the river. The water was a
little bit fresh but very refreshing when you're all hot and sweaty from the
mornings activities, and it was lovely to warm up in the sun on the rocks
afterwards.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14163690908/in/set-72157645015360162" title="The river by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2924/14163690908_39c20c6aa1_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The river"></a>

In the afternoons we'd head back up to the yoga deck for more workshops, often
building on the stuff from the morning, or practicing a choreographed piece that
Nick had us working towards to film for a video.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14327155646/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Classes by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5197/14327155646_5fd1d8a550_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Learning choreography"></a>

Dinner would be another organic feast. One night we had some soft-shell tacos
and they were pretty much the best tacos I've ever tasted!

I learned loads of stuff in a short period, and became aware of a number of weak
spots in my basic skills that I needed to work on. I've previously learned a lot
things only in anti-clockwise, so while I can do a lot of different things I'm
often limited in what I can move between seamlessly because I'm not comfortable
with the direction required to do so. It's good to have realised that it's a
problem so I can go back and focus on the basics for all the different
permutations to make everything flow together a little more easily.

We did some good exercises about developing left/right independence. Sort of
like the old rubbing-your-tummy-while-patting-your-head, but on steroids. It's
actually kind of funny to see how badly behaved my left hand can be when I'm
doing something else with my right. Either hand can do it's part separately
easily, but combined the left just falls apart. These skills become really
important for Hybrids where one hand traces out one pattern while the other
traces out a completely different one, creating some very beautiful
combinations.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14349469704/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Tracing out planes and transitions with hoops by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5555/14349469704_e15a7dcfbd_c.jpg" width="800" height="534" alt="Tracing out planes and transitions with hoops"></a>

A lot of time was spent on footwork techniques to turn more smoothly and with
less effort, and spotting while turning to reduce dizziness when repeatedly
turning in the same direction. This seems to be stuff that people with a dance
background have very little trouble with but having never really learnt to dance
I found quite difficult. Thankfully a little bit of practice has improved things
a lot but I still need to work on this a lot.

We did some work on counting different parts of motion in order to fit patterns
to music better. Counting downbeats feels really natural to most people, but
doing so means that most patterns repeat on an odd number, which when put to 4/4
music makes things complicated. For something simple like a 3-beat weave, you're
stuck repeating it 4 times over 3 bars of music before things line up again.

While I can follow the theory about this stuff, I struggled really hard to
actually find the beat a lot of the time. I know people joke about having no
rhythm, but it honestly feels like the part of my brain that should help with
this is seriously underdeveloped.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14165065470/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Lightning wizard by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm3.staticflickr.com/2922/14165065470_5a415cf914_c.jpg" width="800" height="534" alt="Lightning wizard"></a>

Nick had a set of [Pyroterra Visual
Poi](http://lighttoys.pyroterra.cz/visual-poi-staff-v3/) at the retreat which he
was kind enough to let me have a go of. From the first time I saw these on a
video on Youtube I've been in awe, and then when I saw the $1500 price I was in
even more awe. Getting to actually spin them was amazingly, fun and kind of
disorienting (they're super bright), but also kind of terrifying. I'm sure
they're probably pretty tough, but the though of having to pay for them if they
got broken meant I was probably more worried spinning them than I've ever been
with fire.

<div class="videowrapper"><iframe width="640" height="480" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/rXfYzFGL99Q?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

Jon and Jonathan brought along a lot of (at the time) not-yet-for-sale Flowtoys
products which we all got to play around with. Lots of stuff from the new
modular capsule line-up, capsule handles, compact capsule flower-cap poi, dual
capsule tube poi, even capsule staffs! The capsule handles are so nice I'm
pretty much converted to the idea of lit up handles, and I really liked the
compact flower-cap poi.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14350320165/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Hot springs by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5571/14350320165_c6a9d0c105_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Hot springs"></a>

We made a couple of excursions out into the local area. One day we made a visit
to the nearby hot springs. There's natural warm water coming down the hill, but
it's been routed into some concrete pools to make the bodies of water big enough
to really swim it. It was a very relaxing way to spend a few hours just hanging
out enjoying the water.

<div class="videowrapper"><iframe width="1280" height="720" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/DPQi4KNHonM?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

We got invited to come along to a local festival and rodeo where the group
performed in the bull ring with LED poi. The PA did not have any way to connect
an iPod so we ended up spinning to their selection of music, some Latin-American
pop music songs from the charts. The crowd loved it and some people were even
actually asking afterwards about getting the group to perform at other events.
It was my first time in front of a big crowd and it was heaps of fun.

<div class="videowrapper"><iframe width="640" height="480" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/6n_n9iDN5Do?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

After the performance Jonathan decided he wanted to spin poi in the ring with
the bulls. The locals weren't so keen on him doing this, but they he was able to
partner up with a local guy who was shitfaced drunk, and tried to tie up a baby
bull. The guy had somehow miscommunicated that Jonathan should try and tie up
the bull's back legs up while the local guy grabbed it around the neck, which
lead to some hilarious attempts to get it tied up while the announcer heckled
him in Spanish.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14327229196/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Adding extra flavours by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3924/14327229196_d3cb0eab25_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Adding extra flavours"></a>

One morning some of us made a visit to the local chocolate maker in the village.
It was run by a lady named Tao, who showed us how they made their chocolate,
grinding the cocoa beans in a juicer with some cocoa butter, then put in a
conching machine that rolled the chocolate over for 3 days to get it silky
smooth. We then got to take a batch from 3 days ago and make our own blocks of
chocolate with our own choice of added flavourings.  I made mine with crushed
coffee beans, chilli flakes and sea salt. It turned out really tasty and didn't
last long after I started eating it.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14370570903/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Columns from the side by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5034/14370570903_bd55d44b7c_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Columns from the side"></a>

Another day the whole group took a trip to a nearby beach for the day, Playa
Dominical. We had a nice lunch when we arrived, then went out in the surf and
did some body surfing. It was incredibly fun and reminded me how much I enjoy the
ocean. We had our afternoon poi class by the shore, then had dinner at a local
restaurant before making the trip back to the finca.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/14350077512/in/set-72157645015360162" title="Nick spinning by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5545/14350077512_559e9d5538_c.jpg" width="800" height="533" alt="Nick spinning"></a>

We had two nights of spinning fire right at the end of the retreat, as we had
some issues getting our hands on suitable fuel to burn. It was the first time
I'd spun with fire since way back in Thailand, so I was a little timid about it
and only felt up to spinning the first night, but it was great to see everyone
else busting out their best performances. Especially enjoyable were Thomas
spinning like a mad man to some crazy French psy-trance, AlienJon's
beautifully synchronized slow swinging pendulums to an Ott song, and Nick
spinning to "I'm too sexy" :P

After everything was done and dusted I hung around at Finca Mia for an extra few
days afterwards. It was sad to see the group diminish but great to get to spend
some extra time with the others who stayed on.
