---
date: 2015-04-20 14:24
layout: post
title: "San Marcos La Laguna, Lake Atitlan, Guatemala"
travel_dates: 2014-06-30 - 2014-07-05
tags: meditation, yoga, san-marcos, san-juan, santa-cruz, san-pedro, lake-atitlan, guatemala
---
<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17002133052/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Cramped taxi boat by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7613/17002133052_d6dbf7d8b0_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Cramped taxi boat"></a>

After leaving San Pedro, I made the long and arduous journey across the lake,
braving the calm freshwater sea couped up in a little boat for all of 10
minutes, finally arriving at the hippy shores of San Marco La Laguna.

<!-- more -->

Where San Pedro has a reputation as being the party village on the lake, San
Marcos is a much quieter, sleepy hippy town. The main part of the village is all
just narrow walking tracks, without taxi drivers harassing you every time you try and
walk down the street. It's known for yoga, meditation and new age healing, and I
figured I would try some new things and see if my scepticism was well merited.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16817219649/in/set-72157651692973941" title="My dorm loft by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8731/16817219649_6530e6e000_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="My dorm loft"></a>

I ended up staying at a place called "La Paz", hidden away in lots of green
gardens with little A-frame dorms where I scored the loft at the top largely to
myself for the duration I was there.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17002050022/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Yoga space at my hostel, perfect for poi practice too by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8747/17002050022_e988e2cc5c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Yoga space at my hostel, perfect for poi practice too"></a>

It also had a great yoga space in the back garden which was mostly only used in
the mornings, so I repurposed it as a poi play space for a few hours most days
 and noticed some large improvements in my flow.

The restaurant at the hostel, and most restaurants in San Marcos, had a
vegetarian menu. I'm a big fan of meat, but after being deprived of any real
vegetables for 6 months, tasty vegetarian food was a welcome change. The place
made an awesome veggie burrito, and had some delicious French toast on the
breakfast menu.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17002522301/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Elephant staircase by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7591/17002522301_3e514ef32f_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Elephant staircase"></a>

I made it along to the hostel's yoga classes most mornings, and was pleasantly
surprised with how good the yogi there, Charlie, was. I used to do a lot of
Yoga back in my university days and I used to love it, but every other time I've
done it since then the yogi's have all fallen short and the classes have felt
dull and uninteresting, and usually they seem to have every pose requiring
ultra flexible hamstrings (which I don't have), so I usually end up feeling like
I'm not stretching/working anything else.

Charlie's classes however were much more similar to what I remembered from uni,
a good level of challenge and more varied poses, so at the end of it I would
feel like I'd used a lot more of my body. I found out she lived in India for a
number of years doing yoga before she'd had her first child, as had my yogi from
university, so perhaps that's why their styles seemed more in tune with what I
like.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16977483096/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Little hippy pyramid by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8747/16977483096_3bc351e53c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Little hippy pyramid"></a>

There's a mediation place in San Marcos called Las Piramides (The pyramids)
where all the accommodation cabins are pyramids, the garden is full of pyramids
frames, and they have a giant pyramid that they conduct meditation course in.
The place had a very new-age vibe to it with lots of references to meta-physical
this and that, and I figured if I'm going to try it, why not throw myself in the
deep end.

They run a four week meditation course where the students spend the entire
fourth week not speaking or making a sound.  I wasn't about to sign up for that,
but it was apparently ok to go along just for the day, so I did. They were up to
week 3 of the current course, so perhaps it wasn't the best place to start but I
gave it a go anyway.

<p class="flickr-image-container"><span class="polaroid"><img src="/images/sanmarcos/tumblr_lw1ymvkD9W1qh2i8s.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Lake Atitlan" class="img-responsive"><em>A stolen photo of the big meditation pyramid</em></span></p>

The big pyramid temple has a strange entrance where you go down steps
underground, then back up steps into the temple through a hole in the floor.
Once everyone is inside the floor folds over the entrance like a cellar, so
you're in a sealed up pyramid. There were some windows higher up letting in
light, but there's no chance of leaving early.

<p class="flickr-image-container"><span class="polaroid"><img src="/images/sanmarcos/one-of-the-meditation.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Lake Atitlan" class="img-responsive"><em>A stolen photo of pyramids within pyramids</em></span></p>

In each corner of the pyramid, there were smaller pyramids, and in the centre of
the room there was a bigger one covered over by a piece of cloth. Once the
session started the cloth was removed, revealing a crystal ball mounted in the
top of the centre pyramid. New age mystical!

There were about 25 people in the room, sitting around the edges facing in, each
with a little padded mat and a little wooden slanted stool to sit on.

<p class="flickr-image-container"><span class="polaroid"><img src="/images/sanmarcos/contact.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Lake Atitlan" class="img-responsive"><em>A stolen photo of inside the pyramid</em></span></p>

The session started with 30 minutes of silent meditation, where we were told to
focus on our breathing. It was quite a challenge for someone who's never tried
it before; after about 15 minutes one of my legs was completely numb. I tried to
manoeuvre it so the blood would flow again but it just wouldn't wake up. After
20 minutes I didn't care any more and made a bunch of noise switching my legs
around so the numbness would stop.

Next up we all lay on our backs, feet to the wall, heads towards the middle of
the room, and again focused on breathing. Breathing in 5 seconds, holding for 3,
then out for 5 seconds. Then 7-3-7, 9-3-9, 11-3-11 and finally 13-3-13. By about
the 9 second breaths, I was really struggling to stretch out my breaths any
longer.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16977610346/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Lake Atitlan by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8728/16977610346_df88335f0b_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Lake Atitlan"></a>

Then there was some “ohm” chanting for about 5 minutes. It was kind of neat to
hear the room in chorus, with different people running out of breath at
different times and starting again, and how it affected the harmony. After a
while my face kind of felt a bit funny from all the vibrations.

Then there was some talking about finding your “life mission”, which was defined
as the thing that makes you happy. It seemed a bit simplistic to me.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16977620066/in/set-72157651692973941" title="This cat decided to take the bed next to mine by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8746/16977620066_82a1798305_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="This cat decided to take the bed next to mine"></a>

Finally we did 7 more deep breaths, then rolled onto our sides, followed 7 more
breaths, then sitting up cross legged again while candles all around the room
got put out one by one.

During these last breaths I actually did feel like my mind was a lot clearer
than it had been at the start, a lot calmer with less jumping from thought to
thought. I can't say I had any life changing revelations, but thinking about such
mechanical things are breathing, and “ohm”ing really did seem to clear my mind,
for a while at least.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16815786538/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Mayan artifact by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8691/16815786538_6cb7bc5076_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Mayan artifact"></a>

I saw a flyer somewhere for a "meditation for dummies" class that was one while
I was around, so I called the number and signed myself up, to see what a more
beginner levels meditation class would be like.

It turned out I was the only person who signed up, so it was just a one-on-one
class with a woman named Edith. It started off with her telling me about all
different kinds of meditation: walking meditation, writing meditation, dancing
meditation, humming meditation, heart meditation... it all sounded a bit
overwhelming for a meditation noobie like myself.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17002593151/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Lake reclaiming houses by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7639/17002593151_2047f8fe07_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Lake reclaiming houses"></a>

We did some heart meditation, which was kind of like Tai Chi to music. We
started with our hands in front of our chests, slowly pushing our hands forward
and drawing them back in time with the music, apparently pushing out bad energy
and pulling in good energy. Then out to the sides and back, then pushing out
behind us and drawing back. To be completely honest, I felt stupid doing this
and didn't feel like I got anything at all from it.

Next up was humming meditation. We hummed to "music" (a seemingly random
composition of drums, cymbals and other sounds) for about 40 minutes. This was
actually pretty intense on my throat; I was struggling to keep a hum going and
my lips were going numb. After humming, we did some more arm movements, pushing
out bad stuff like insecurity, jealousy and hatred, and bringing in good things
like happiness, confidence and gratitude. Strangely, this actually felt like it
calmed me down a lot. Or maybe I was just happy to not be humming any more...
who knows?

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16796198627/in/set-72157651692973941" title="I dont even know by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8755/16796198627_29cbbdd300_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="I dont even know"></a>

Then we did some numerology stuff based on my birthday that apparently said some
positive things that were vague enough that they could apply to just about
anyone. Yep, I'm totally sceptic about that BS.

Next we did some writing meditation, which was basically writing out a bunch of
affirmations. I don't doubt that affirmations can be helpful, but this didn't
seem very sedative to me.

Finally we talked briefly about my poi and juggling, and it sounds like how I've
always said that they felt pretty much like meditation to me really isn't far
off. I guess I've been meditating in my own way for a lot longer than I
realised, and in a way that's a lot more fun. Go me!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17003558065/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Check out the crops on that slope by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8747/17003558065_a2ce41df7a_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Check out the crops on that slope"></a>

At the end of my first day in San Marcos, Rachel - the Spanish school student I
met on my last night in San Pedro, send me a message asking if I wanted to try
and walk from San Pedro around the lake to San Marcos with her. I was keen so we
met up the next afternoon and gave it a shot, but after asking some people in
San Juan about safety on the road between there and San Marcos we were told
there were sometimes bandits along there so we ended up getting a tuk-tuk from
there instead, along what turned out to be a very hilly long road. I dunno if
there used to be a flatter path before the lake level came up so far, but it
didn't seem like it would have been a very leisurely walk these days anyway.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16383431423/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Rachel and I in front of Volcan San Pedro by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7636/16383431423_7e27567b05_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Rachel and I in front of Volcan San Pedro"></a>

We ended up meeting up nearly every afternoon to go exploring somewhere new,
giving us lots of time to talk and get to know one another better. We explored
around San Marcos, checking out the park next to the best swimming spot in the
lake and up the hill to Mayan altars and some lovely views of the lake and the
volcanoes.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17002659011/in/set-72157651692973941" title="Saint Peter (San Pedro) by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8700/17002659011_8884f673ab_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Saint Peter (San Pedro)"></a>

We wandered around the streets of San Pedro, allowing me to experience it
without quite so much festival craziness going on, and found a nice cafe to sit
and have a drink in. We went over to Santa Cruz and walked up the hill along
narrow paths as far as the paths would take us, and then back down again.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17002143592/in/set-72157651692973941" title="P1030487.jpg by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7600/17002143592_d872739c89_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Sarah and Rachel"></a>

Rachel's sister Sarah arrived on the lake late in the week as she was coming
down to Guatemala for a few weeks too, so we all went to the swimming spot next
to San Marcos for the afternoon and had a nice swim in the lake, before heading
up the hill to show Sarah the views and altars.

At the end of the week Rachel was finished up at the Spanish school, and her and
Sarah were going to head over to Xela, and I felt like I'd tried enough
meditation for now and had been planning to go there anyway, so I tagged along
with them and we all booked a shuttle from the lake to Xela together.
