---
date: 2015-06-01 19:40
layout: post
title: "Tikal"
travel_dates: 2014-08-07 - 2014-08-09
tags: Tikal, Flores, Guatemala, Ruins
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17225779282/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Temple V by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7657/17225779282_fa99534481_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Temple V at Tikal"></a>

After Semuc Champey I headed to Flores, the city closest to Tikal. It was
another long minibus day, 11 hours on the bus, but at least this time I got a
single seat near the door without one in front of it, so I had plenty of legroom
and nobody taking up the space where my shoulders go. I stayed the night in a
hotel where I was the only guest. I really don't think the travel agent made
much effort to get me in somewhere cheap as I had to walk past a few different
hostels to get there. I made good use of the air conditioning at least!

<!-- more -->

The next morning I was picked up by another shuttle that took me in to Tikal
itself. I had opted to stay a night at one of the hotels situated right at the
entrance to the park to enable me to do the sunrise tour without having to get
up at quite such a ridiculous hour to travel the hour or so from Flores to the
park and still make it for sunrise. My room was one of the cheapest ones, so it
was situated away from the fancy part of the hotel near the pool, down a long
path out into the jungle. I think I'd actually prefer this over the ones in the
upmarket part of the hotel as it was a bit more private feeling and got the
sounds of nature after dark.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17041100829/in/set-72157652039835056" title="The back of Templo del gran jaguar by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7676/17041100829_3235030a1c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="The back of Templo del gran jaguar"></a>

After checking in I went and did some solo exploring of Tikal. It seemed like a
long walk before I saw any sign of ruins, then suddenly I was next to an
enormous pyramid!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17041182279/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Hard to even identify that this is an unrestored temple by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8692/17041182279_9d42cf472e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Hard to even identify that this is an unrestored temple"></a>

It was amazing to see the scale of the site and the structures on it. Even more
so when you realise pretty much every hill you see is actually an unrestored
structure of some sort or another.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17226783401/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Maler's Palace? by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7657/17226783401_45ba662612_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Maler's Palace"></a>

The structures themselves weren't particularly imagination provoking for me.
They're huge, but they just feel like giant piles of bricks. I have trouble
imagining how people would live in them, or guessing what they would use them
for, which makes it hard for me to wonder much about their lives. Maybe I've
just got ruin fatigue, although I've only seen two Mayan ruins so far.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16605028094/in/set-72157652039835056" title="The unrestored side of Temple V by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8790/16605028094_db666e7617_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="The unrestored side of Temple V"></a>

It was interesting to see on Temple V how different the sides that aren't
restored look compared to the one that is. The ones that aren't restored just
look like very steep hills covered in trees, while the one that is has a giant
staircase surrounded by terraces. The original archaeologists would have needed
much better imaginations than mine to realise what was actually there.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17041195609/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Me at Tikal by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8728/17041195609_b65d96c765_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Me at the top of Temple IV"></a>

I climbed up to the top of Temple IV and the view was epic, endless jungle with
the tops of temples poking out here and there. This was the temple that we would
be climbing for the sunrise tour, so I was excited about how pretty this vista
might be.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17226751361/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Half of the Great Plaza by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8719/17226751361_58ae4389d0_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Half of the Grand Plaza"></a>

The Grand Plaza was pretty monumental, surrounded on two sides by enormous
pyramids, and on the other two sides by the acropolis and the palace, littered
with stela and alters.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17225895322/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Templo de las mascaras by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5462/17225895322_39277707d4_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Templo de las mascaras"></a>

Since I was in the park overnight anyway, I also decided to go on the hotel's
sunset tour which turned out to be a bit of a disappointment. The tour was
supposed to be in English, but the guide's English was extremely poor. I noticed
at one point that on his official guide badge it only listed Spanish as the
language he was permitted to provide his services in. This led to it not being
very informative at all, and I got little more from having a guide than I had
from wandering around by myself.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17227402405/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Unrestored corner of a pyramid by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8768/17227402405_5922bc33a4_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Unrestored corner of a pyramid"></a>

It was a three hour tour, but the guide kept stopping in plazas and giving us 30
minutes of "free time" to explore by ourselves while he sat and talked to other
guides. Having already explored most of the site that morning, I felt like this
was pretty crummy. All up the tour was maybe 45 minutes of actual tour and a lot
of waiting.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17039994880/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Sunset happening behind the clouds by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm6.staticflickr.com/5454/17039994880_4395fa0937_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Sunset happening behind the clouds"></a>

For sunset itself, our guide told us that the Acropolis is the best place to
view it, but really it wasn't a very good view for a sunset, the Acropolis
itself and Temple II blocked most of the view, Temple IV was tiny and in the
distance. There weren't many other people around, so I'm guessing there's
somewhere better to view it from that all the other groups had gone to, maybe
further into the park meaning a longer walk out.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17227539765/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Amazing clouds by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7695/17227539765_c500a3766e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Amazing clouds"></a>

As the sun came down there were some amazing clouds formations appeared in the
sky and some thunder. They were beautiful when they were off to the south, less
pretty when they blew over and blocked the actual setting of the sun and didn't
even give us pretty colours. Ah well, you can't always get ideal weather.

After returning from the tour, I showered and then had dinner at the hotel with
a couple from Singapore who love to travel and told me all sorts of great
stories about their travels in Cuba and Columbia. After dinner I walked along
the long path towards my room with my head torch on, and could see hundreds of
little dots reflecting light brightly back at me all over the ground. As I got
close enough to see what they were I found that there were hundreds and hundreds
of wolf spiders just chilling about on the grass and on the path way, so I
walked carefully and tried to avoid stepping anywhere near any of them.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17041367049/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Dawn at the top of Temple IV by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7716/17041367049_d75733d95c_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Dawn at the top of Temple IV"></a>

The next morning I got up at just before 4am to meet up at the hotel reception
with my sunrise tour group and have a coffee. It was a dark morning and we could
see so many stars out. As we walked the long walk from the hotel over to Temple
IV a fog started to rise, and by the time we climbed the stairs at the back of
the temple to sit up on top of it the fog had truly taken over.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16605114694/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Fog rising, but the sun is already up by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7669/16605114694_283b2698ce_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Fog rising, but the sun is already up"></a>

We waited for ages for it to become light, but the heavy fog meant we couldn't
even see the closest temples until the sun was well and truly up, and we never
saw any pretty colours or evidence of the sunrise. Such a tease after being up
so early, especially after it had been so clear earlier. 0 out of 2 solar events
witnessed. Screw you weather!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17039620178/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Part of the lost world by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8811/17039620178_1c2115544e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Part of the lost world"></a>

After the failed sunrise we went on a short tour, and this guide was much better
than the first one. We went over to the Lost World and heard how the structures
were built as a sort of calendar with the sunrise lining up with various
buildings on the longest, middle and shortest days. I wish I'd had this guide
the first day and could have learnt more about the other areas of the park.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17225960332/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Old photo of Temple of the Masks by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8824/17225960332_08a485da16_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Old photo of Temple of the Masks"></a>

After the tour I headed back to the hotel for breakfast, checked out and stashed
my bags, then went and visited a few of the museums around the entrance of the
park. One of them was super interesting, with lots of historical photos showing
the state that all of the temples were found in (after they'd be cleared of
trees at least). Interestingly there were photos of some of the temples that now
have massive trees growing out of them that showed they had once been cleared in
the past. It seems irresponsible not to keep them free from trees to prevent
further damage, even if they are not restored.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16607590753/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Crocodile in a pond by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8717/16607590753_ea6cf5b347_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Crocodile in a pond"></a>

Wandering near a little lake I saw a sign warning there were crocodiles, so I
spent some time looking and found two of them lurking near the surface. They
were only little fellas, but I still wouldn't want one of them biting me.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17040271970/in/set-72157652039835056" title="The lake at Flores is also rising by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7726/17040271970_3662fef090_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="The lake at Flores is also rising"></a>

In the afternoon I got a shuttle back to Flores where I was spending the night,
but this time I arrived with enough time to actually explore a bit. I tried to
walk around the street that circles the island, but one side was cut off by the
lake where it's broken its bank. It seems like there's a lot of lakes with
rising water levels in Guatemala.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16605391994/in/set-72157652039835056" title="Big doggie getting a bath by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7652/16605391994_fcf8c3b3dc_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Big doggie getting a bath"></a>

Flores didn't really seem like a very interesting place. Everything there was a
hotel, a restaurant or a souvenir shop, with more souvenir shops per square km
than Antigua by a long shot. I was pretty glad I only had the afternoon there,
it seemed like plenty, and I had a bus booked to take me down to Rio Dulce the
next morning.
