---
date: 2015-05-04 15:47
layout: post
title: "Revisiting Antigua and Earth Lodge"
travel_dates: 2014-07-13 - 2014-07-20
tags: Antigua, Guatemala, Earth-Lodge, Ruins, chicken-buses
---

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16870814889/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Pimped chickenbus, got a wave from the conductor by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8801/16870814889_fffb1fc4bf_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Pimped chickenbus, got a wave from the conductor"></a>

At the end of our week in Xela, Rachel, Sarah and I headed back to Antigua.
Sarah had to fly home from Guatemala City in a few days time, and I was happy to
go back and share the amazing ruins with them and explore a few more.

<!-- more -->

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16436785383/in/set-72157651649474182" title="The Monastery of the Recollection by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7686/16436785383_b46e7e5de1_c.jpg" width="800" height="500" alt="The Monastery of the Recollection"></a>

We went to The Monastery of the Recollection convent again, and were lucky enough
to get another another tour from the same ground keeper. I was really please he
was there, it would not have been anywhere as good without being able to get
into the restricted parts again.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17056955075/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Me climbing up places where I probably shouldn't by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8717/17056955075_7a477bf284_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Me climbing up places where I probably shouldn't"></a>

I noticed a decent improvement in my understanding of his Spanish this time
around and the lighting was a little better this time around so I got to take
some more photos of the place.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16849641287/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Cathedral from central park by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8730/16849641287_e55747613f_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Cathedral from central park"></a>

We went on the walking tour led by a guy named Alexander, telling us about
Antigua's history and some of it's ruins. It was from him that I found out how
the “public service” preservation of ruins is the reason so many of them are
just fenced off without any info or maintenance, and the lack of public funds to
change that.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17057053095/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Epic building facade from central park by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7639/17057053095_427a7da137_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Epic building facade from central park"></a>

Many of Antigua's old buildings are just their façades now, with either nothing
behind them, or completely new buildings built behind them. It was also from him
that I learned that the Cathedral off central park didn't actually fall from the
earthquake, but rather from lack of maintenance. He told us that some work is
done now to stop it decaying any further, but they wont be restoring it.  We
learned how colonial style architecture in this area meant super thick walls to
withstand earthquakes, which also means generally dark building without windows.

The tour stopped in at a jade factory, where we were told how the Mayan empire
had collapsed because of their indulgent greed and decoration, and then at the
end we were pressured to try and get us to buy super expensive jade jewellery. I
think the irony was lost on them.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16869314508/in/set-72157651649474182" title="A spiral of bells by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7593/16869314508_ea628150ce_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="A spiral of bells"></a>

The tour finished up at a old ruin that is privately owned, San Jeronimo, which
now functions as a pretty great museum. We were told that because they don't
have the UNESCO restrictions that the publicly maintained ones do, they're able
to do things their own way and thus it's in much better condition than pretty
much any of the other ones. Full of beautiful gardens and classy looking old
room, it's apparently used for a lot of weddings.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17056229851/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Pimped chickenbus by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8738/17056229851_8f574614f7_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Pimped chickenbus"></a>

Another day Rachel and Sarah went to climb Volcan Pacaya; I had wanted to do a
tour in Antigua that I found online that visited a bunch of out of the ordinary
places including a coffin maker's workshop and a chicken bus factory, but the
tour wasn't available during the days I was around. The chicken bus factory was
the part that interested me most so I asked at the hostel and got some
directions and set out to find it myself.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16437018783/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Blue Bird by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7625/16437018783_bc4ebaf4e1_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Blue Bird"></a>

As an aside for those in the dark, "chicken bus" is the moniker that pretty much
everyone in Central America uses for the old USA school buses (often Blue Birds)
that have been refitted and painted up, often with very bright and colourful
paint jobs and nearly always with lots of biblical passages as decals on the
windows.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17057143345/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Painting a new chickenbus by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8825/17057143345_4bde75634a_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Painting a new chickenbus"></a>

I got on a chicken bus that took me to Ciudad Vieja (old city), a much more
authentically Guatemalan city next to Antigua. When I got off the bus, I had no
idea where to go, and just a scrap of paper with the name of the workshop
written on it. I asked in a little food shop and he gave me a general direction
to head in, and eventually I found the place I was looking for.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17055673102/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Inside a stripped out chickenbus by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8762/17055673102_c3d7e4e677_c.jpg" width="601" height="800" alt="Inside a stripped out chickenbus"></a>

It turned out there was a whole cluster of places clumped together that all did
work on chicken buses so I visited a few of them. The first one had a lot of old
American school buses being painted and refitted, lots of people busy working.
There were a bit confused why a gringo would want to look around, but let me
walk through and see some shiny newly painted buses being worked on.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17057161215/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Modern chassis chickenbus by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7612/17057161215_6a33fe558e_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Modern chassis chickenbus"></a>

The place that I'd been given the name of by the hostel, Taller Horacios de
Camionetas, appeared closed when I arrived.  I knocked on the door anyway and a
guy who actually spoke a decent amount of English answered the door. He was
happy to let me come in for a look and told me a bunch about how they also make
new buses out of trucks, stripping them down and pretty much building entirely
new vehicles out of them.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16870929509/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Chicken bus workshop by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7664/16870929509_5295bd61d4_c.jpg" width="800" height="601" alt="Chicken bus workshop"></a>

Apparently buses take about 40-60 days to fit-out, and start from about 50,000
Quetzales ($6,500 USD) for a basic fit-out, but can cost a whole lot more if you
want lots of fancy lights and stuff. Depending on where the bus is going to be
used, they will actually shorten them so they'll be able to get around tight
corners in that city, put in more powerful engines to deal with hills in the
area, change them over to have manual transmissions, or upgrade the engine
computers with ones from trucks in order to get more power from the engines. It
was fascinating to find out how unique each bus on the road must end up being.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17057227455/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Earth Lodge panorama by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8805/17057227455_6e77625612_c.jpg" width="800" height="356" alt="Earth Lodge panorama"></a>

The next morning we got up to say goodbye to Sarah at 4am before going back to
bed to sleep until a more sane time to start the day. After we'd had breakfast,
we got picked up by a shuttle to take us up into the hills above Antigua to an
eco-lodge and avocado farm called Earth Lodge where we were booked to stay for a
few days. It was a really nice location with a fantastic view looking out
towards Volcan de Agua and Volcan Fuego, surrounded by farmers fields and green
forests.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16869677300/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Smiling Rachel in a hammock by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8827/16869677300_f730d1aaac_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Smiling Rachel in a hammock"></a>

We spent many hours in Earth Lodge's numerous hammocks looking out that view of
the volcanoes, talking about everything and nothing, and got in a lot of reading
too.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/16869700660/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Fuego erupting yet again by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7726/16869700660_dcbaae4340_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Fuego erupting yet again"></a>

During the period we were there Volcan Fuego seemed to be quite active, blowing
out plumes of smoke several times a day. It kind of made the effort we'd put in
to see Santiaguito erupt seem unnecessary, although I still think it was
worthwhile to actually hear the boom from up close.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17057304895/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Rachel in a farmers field by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8763/17057304895_3f1a46eb1b_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Rachel in a farmers field"></a>

Most days we went on hikes further up into the hills to get some exercise,
passing a lot of farms that seemed to be growing flowers, and along trails
through the forest.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17057314095/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Earth Lodge sunrise by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7611/17057314095_88033a3df5_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Earth Lodge sunrise"></a>

Being an avocado farm, the kitchen's menu was well packed with meals that
included deliciously ripe avocado. They also made terrific fruit smoothies, so I
tried all kinds of strange combinations. I think my favourite combination was
strawberry and avocado.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/lucasthenomad/17055820802/in/set-72157651649474182" title="Dry lightning storm by Lucas the nomad, on Flickr"><img src="https://farm9.staticflickr.com/8804/17055820802_4edc50e45c_c.jpg" width="800" height="450" alt="Dry lightning storm"></a>

One night, possibly the last one we were there, there was an epic lightning
storm. Lightning was streaking across the sky every few seconds lighting up the
clouds, and thunder was booming, but interestingly there was not a drop of rain
to go with it so we got to sit outside and enjoy the show. Nature is amazing!

